Johannesburg - Health-care booking platform RecoMed has joined forces with legal medical cannabis health-tech platform Cannabis Clinics, as well as doctors with both medicinal cannabis education and assistance, in obtaining approvals to prescribe medical cannabis products. The parties have partnered to launch an online booking and virtual consult platform listing doctors that are available to see patients via an encrypted video call. The partner said that patients, when making a booking, can pay up front using a credit card or other popular payment methods. Medicinal cannabis products, which range from oil, sprays and capsules to vapes and dried flowers, are used in the management of health conditions such as cancer symptoms, chronic pain management, epilepsy, palliative care and mental health issues such as anxiety and insomnia. The partners said: “Described as the South Africa’s ‘Booking.com of health care’, RecoMed partnered with Cannabis Clinics to power this unique, first-ever booking platform where patients can access the services of a select group of doctors comprehensively trained in the uses of medicinal cannabis products and the current medicinal cannabis regulatory environment.” Craig Ludwig, chief strategy officer at Cannabis Clinics, said the organisation was proud to be working with RecoMed to facilitate and optimise this direct patient-to-doctor consultation programme throughout South Africa via their platforms. “It’s a significant step forward in helping to create access to medicinal cannabis products for patients who have previously been excluded from opting to include legal, high-quality medicinal cannabis in their health-care and treatment regime,” Ludwig said. RecoMed chief executive Sheraan Amod said the overarching goal is the improvement of access to quality health care. “We are pleased to join forces with Cannabis Clinics to expand the health-care choices of South Africans and optimise their access to treatments that can help them better manage their health conditions.  With the new 24/7 Cannabis Clinics booking platform, they will be able to easily find qualified medicinal cannabis practitioners, make bookings for tele-health or physical consultations, get reminders of their appointments, make secure online payments and arrange to either fill their prescription at any leading pharmacy or have their meds delivered directly to their home or office by Clicks Direct Medicines,” Amod said. The Star