The subject of African spirituality is still very intricate in South Africa, especially with so many diverse beliefs due to the massive range of communities. In many cases, the introduction of shows around spirituality is either given a nod or falls victim to criticism. Renowned TV and radio host Penny Lebyane unearths perceptions on Sangoma Khanyisa, a reality show she has been hosting for the past few months. With this show she highlights its essence and ideologies that it challenges that viewers may not necessarily be well informed about. The show touches on African spiritual gifts such as healing, people who can dream and see things that can help in curbing challenges rife in many homes. We delve into a conversation with Lebyane about Sangoma Khanyisa where she unpacks its significance. “I think it's really just about whether you believe or are open-minded to hearing a different thing to experiences that you have had,“ she said. Lebyane has been a catalyst in getting people to find solutions, especially in the mental health space. The experience has also assisted her see how someone can be trapped in a cycle of life. “Generally, people are going through things and they are looking for ways in how they can get help. In regards to the productions that I have worked on, I try to be in spaces where I can be able to facilitate getting people to help with whatever issues that they might be facing. Whether I was doing a show like Motswako, at the end of the day it is about people getting help with challenges they are currently facing. “It cuts across in terms of some traditional African spiritual gifts like healing or people who have the ability to dream and see things that actually could help a particular family get through challenges,” she said. Lebyane further added that some of the reasons that many families encounter issues is a result of questioning Africa beliefs, highlighting the importance of looking at them from a different perspective. “I think one of the challenges that we have as African people currently, is having to question beliefs which in a way has torn a lot of families,” she said. This show features on Honey TV on Thursdays at 5.30pm where viewers can go on a spiritual journey with Mkhulu Rametsi and Lebyane.