A rural Limpopo high school managed to move from an under-performing 39% matric pass rate to highest in the district for three years in a row, against all odds. Worried by the pass rate and school’s to meet the matric pass target set by the Department of Basic Education, the principal and deputy principal of Makgongoana Secondary School in Mankweng implemented learner support tools using a community development programme, “Tools for Life”. The initiative began when the school’s deputy principal, William Ramodike, who is also a Zion Christian Church pastor, attended a pastor empowerment seminar in Midrand delivered by the non-profit organisation, Scientology Volunteer Ministers. “I had the privilege of attending a seminar where I was introduced to a free life skills community development programme called ‘Tools for Life’,” said Ramodike. “The programme trained me on skills to handle study difficulties, communication, conflict resolution, achieving goals, ethics and many more. After the seminar, I knew exactly how to improve my community, starting with my learners, and it brought fantastic results.” The deputy principal added that the principal of the school, Shapule Modjadji, was instrumental in the successful implementation of these tools. “With the leadership style of Dr Modjadji, we found a way to pilot and put into application these valuable skills that I learned. Together with the rest of the school’s teachers we worked very hard to make this a success. This brings renewed hope for the future,” said Ramodike. The deputy principal worked out extra study time for the learners and applied a study method called Study Technology. The school’s results immediately rocketed and the matric pass rate moved from 39% to over 80%. “These tools for life really changed my life because they are applicable in any situation in society, they help me facilitate lessons, help my fellow pastors in church, handle my household affairs and anything life can throw at me. We are more than just helping kids pass, we are also ensuring that they become valuable and contributing members of society who can make a positive change,” said Ramodike. “I am very happy with what we have achieved so far but I am not satisfied, there is still more work to be done.” Sandile Hlayisi, of the Scientology Volunteer Ministers, said he was convinced that the same results could be attained at schools across the country. @Chulu_M