Former Mayor of Johannesburg, Parks Tau and minister in the Presidency, Mondli Gungubele have spoken out against some of the issues affecting the ruling party with the party implementation of its own policies and resolutions being at the centre of the party's unimpressive run at the polls in recent times. The two ANC stalwarts said that the party would be working hard  to improve its ability to implement its own policies as this has had an impact in their dwindling support at the polls. "If you look at our policies and literature, there is nothing new that we need to do but to make sure we implement our policies. Our failure  to implement policies have had an impact  on our performance at the polls in recent times. One of the things we are even improving is the way we are trying to redefine the concept of a viable branch,” said Tau He said that in the past  a viable branch meant a branch that had at least 100 members in good standing and other requirements but now relooking at that concept and wants branches to be in touch with its communities and issues of these communities they are in. “If you go into the resolutions of the  ANC, the reason for the existence of a branch finds expression in to what  extent are they in touch with the needs of the community," he said. Tau said it was important for the party to rebuild and renew itself ahead of the 2024 elections if the party is to reclaim its glory as a people-centred organisation. "As you know the region has recently elected its leadership. We have reaffirmed our position in reclaiming the city back to the ANC. We are confident that we will reclaim our position in the city and there is a lot of support that needs to be given for that to happen," Tau said. Tau added that though the conference has been plagued by delays, he was happy with the progress being made thus far, adding that most of the issues had to do with logistics rather than political infighting. "Logistical issues to a large extent have hindered progress but I am proud of the organisation of the conference.   I know that people focus on elections but the resilience shown by the leadership has shown that we have recovered a lot time  in terms of progress being made to ensure the conference continues," Tau said.