Patriotic Alliance Leader and Executive Mayor of the Central Karoo, Gayton Mckenzie looks set to meet the targets that he set himself for his 100 days in office. McKenzie became Mayor in April and hS brought some excitement in local government politics and the Central Karoo in particular following his stance on making Beaufort West an investment destination and the centre of excellence and unemployment amid calls for businesses to invest in the area. This week, McKenzie lamented the levels of unemployment which he says affects not only the youth but older people some of whom have never worked for over 30 years of their lives. The first panels installed today at 11:15am, the Central Karoo energy program is now real. This is a big deal and lots of jobs is being created. pic.twitter.com/ax6vPxaMl6 “I have met people who have never had a job for 30 years. They are now 50-60 years old. The reality of our people is dire. We can't forever complain. Let us do our part and politicians should be enablers of progress. I will lead from Central Karoo ,” McKenzie tweeted on Sunday. The businessman who has taken up politics as his new calling  promised to build 26 solar farms, fix potholes and bring in businesses from outside the Karoo to invest in the people of Beaufort West who have been crying for a long time for things to improve. This past week, he indicated that he had established a bakery for the community and was in the process of opening or helping a group of young people open their own factory to manufacture protective equipment for municipal workers who had gone for years without getting protective equipment to do their jobs properly. This morning, McKenzie visited a solar panel construction site where he said the work will start in getting Beaufort  West energy self-sufficient. “The first of the 15 solar panel farms is being installed today at 11:15 am.. The Central Karoo energy programme is now real. This is a big deal and lots and lots of jobs will be created,” he said. With the PPE factory being constructed and finalized, McKenzie said by 14 June, the factory will be up and running with 100 jobs reserves for women in the ages of 50 and 60 being earmarked for jobs at this factory. In the past week, McKenzie also indicated that the bakery will also create jobs and help solve the bread problem the area has been facing as they sourced their bread from  Worcester. McKenzie has also indicated that on top of the bakery and the PPE manufacturing factories, the area was looking into opening four more factories to ensure that people get jobs and the Karoo attracts business investment to help it return to its former glory as his municipality had no money but relied on entrepreneurs and other fundraising initiatives to provide essential services. Furthermore, the author of Hustlers Bible and former convict encouraged parents in all areas led by the Patriotic Alliance to organize prayer sessions to pray on behalf of young people on June 16, which is the day earmarked to celebrate young people. “I urge you comrades and leaders in all the communities to pray for the youth. Do not just criticize them but pray for them and take them back to God. I am the product of my mothers prayers. She prayed for me and this June 16 on Youth Day, let us pray for our children,” he said in his weekly Facebook Live interaction with members of PA.