Feminine hygiene products remain one of the essential items that every girl needs to be comfortable wherever they are, particularly keeping them in school. Popular retail pharmacy Dis-Chem, along with other partners, continues with their mission to keep girls in school by assisting those underprivileged with sanitary pads. The Million Comforts Campaign was officially launched at Dis-Chem Sandton City, where all pioneers of this initiative were present. The main purpose of the campaign is to empower schoolgirls, raise awareness about women’s health, and give girls the opportunity to continue their education without the restraint of hygiene risks, discomfort, embarrassment, or the loss of dignity. Renowned actor Clement Maosa, who has been part of the campaign for some time, was also among those who highlighted its essence. Speaking about his involvement he said: “I have been part of Million Comforts Campaign for years now. I even went to Mount Kilimanjaro just to raise sanitary towels so that we can give a girl child confidence and surety to stay in school. And one thing I love about this campaign is that it impacts a lot of lives.“ He further added that this campaign is a call for action for people to make a difference. Richard Mabaso from the Imbumba Foundation also shared how vital the initiative is for him and those who benefit from it. “I climbed Mount Kilimanjaro with 300 other people to support the cause for girls. I decided that I should find a way to empower myself and many other men out there to go to the shop and buy a packet of pads.’’ Mabaso added that over the past seven years they have collected over 60 million sanitary pads to support young girls and keep them in school. Jacqueline (who prefers her surname withheld), who runs the foundation, also encouraged the public to help make a difference by using their Benefits Card every time they make a purchase. “The Dis-Chem Group encourages the public to make use of their Benefits Card every time they purchase at one of their stores so that the Dis-Chem Foundation can continue making a difference in the lives of the communities it has served for so many years.” Over the past seven years, The Dis-Chem foundation along with its partners has been making  sure this need is delivered to those in need of assistance.