Gauteng ANC Chairperson David Makhura expressed  that he is impressed with the manner in which the 15th Greater Johannesburg Region conference’s discipline. Makhura said he could feel that in the Idle Winds Lodge and conference centre that this is a proper ANC conference. “As I drove around firstly, one has to see when you enter whether this is an ANC conference or not. I did not see people marching and blocking the road trying to force themselves into the conference.I did see the security and that security I know that this is the security of ANC,” Makhura said. Makhura paid tribute to members in the region of Joburg who died namely former speaker Connie Bapela in 2018, chairperson and mayor Geoff Makhubo, former REC member and former mayor Jolidee Matongo, former treasure and mayor Mpho Moerane, Patric Mayisela and Thandi Goqo and former young lion Desmond Manganye. “We have lost many of these fighters in the course of a struggle for fundamental change for the country and the best tribute we can pay to them even though we are still going through pain the best tribute we can pay at this conference is to ensure that when we rise on Sunday we come here as the ANC that inspires public confidence in Johannesburg, Gauteng and entire country,” Makhura. He said on behalf of the Provincial Executive Committee, they commend Johannesburg as a structure, the RTT and the branches for working meticulously to ensure that this conference finally takes place this weekend in fulfilment of the constitution of the ANC. Makhura said this conference is coming together, saying that they are already in their assessment as provincial leadership having met with the RTT in accordance with guidelines adopted by the National Executive  Committee. “You are still going to deal with those and other issues but there is no conference  in Gauteng that now we want to even start unless there's been full compliance with the constitution and the guidelines of the ANC. “Comrades you have gathered here in the name of the ANC and you must do things that will make the ANC proud, you must fulfil the mandate that the ANC has for its conferences,” he said. Makhura said conferences are not the end, they serve a particular purpose to help them to rebuild structures, renew particularly grassroots structures the branches so that can provide leadership to communities and being in the front to assist in every struggle the communities are facing including crime, youth unemployment, service delivery, electricity problems, housing and inadequate water supply, roads. “If we forget that fundamental purpose and think that the ANC exists for conferences we are not a proper ANC, a proper ANC is the one that says we need to have a conference because we are due for a conference and the conference must come and go because we want work to be done and that work is on the ground in communities, municipalities, provinces and that is the way of leading a struggle of our people to change their quality of life,” Makhura said.