In a world that is deeply entrenched in the conception that women can not support one another, it is a good sight to see women from all walks of life come together for a good cause. The inaugural “HerStory International Theatre Festival” will not only work to act as a vessel for women's personal stories but will also give them a platform to touch base on subjects pervasive in their circles. Helmed by an award-winning creative director, Napo Masheane, who is based in Sweden, this big festival will boast women from countries across the globe. HerStory International Theatre Festival is set to take place from August 1-7 at Soweto Theatre. The platform is to showcase, present and share their creativity post-Covid-19 around the theme of rising from trauma. This includes having vital dialogues and also provoking each other positively. Masheane say the festival is also another way to further re-shape and re-mould women stories as interpreted by women, for women, with women in them. Speaking about the significance of this festival, Masheane says: “HerStory International Theatre Festival is my brainchild. It is like the idea of a performing art platform that I created last year. The concept around it is really to have a space for women creatives, artists, theatre makers from different parts of the world to be able to be in one space for seven days.” This theatre festival will feature scholars, poets, playwrights, actresses, actors, and directors, but also artistic directors and curators. “These are women that are running their own organisations, institutions, and festivals in different parts of the world. So I normally say it is like Napo Masheane multiplied and really being in the same space as women,” she said. The multi-award winning creative director also revealed that storytelling has always played an essential role in her life. “ Storytelling has always been an important part of my life. And I think by the mere fact that I named a festival ‘’HerStory” really reflects how I have always been inspired by stories from my grandmother, my mom, my amazing aunt from Soweto, and my grandmother, who came from Lesotho, and my mom who is in Qwaqwa.” Masheane added that her childhood was surrounded by stories from different magnitudes. She further touched on the ideologies that the festival challenges, saying all those who identify as women, their voices can be amplified through this great platform.