Primary school learners from an Alexandra school made the disturbing discovery of a dead body under a mobile classroom last week. The Gauteng Department of Education (GDE) announced on Friday that learners from MC Weiler Primary School in Alexandra discovered what is alleged to be a human body underneath a mobile classroom within the school premises on Thursday, June 2. “This unsettling discovery was made during school break between 11am and 11.30am, when learners allegedly went to fetch a soccer ball that was underneath the Grade 5A mobile classroom.  “The learners reportedly identified their discovery as a human skeleton and immediately informed their educators,” GDE spokesperson Steve Mabona said. The MC Weiler Primary school management subsequently contacted the police and released the learners early at 1pm to allow police officials to conduct the necessary investigation. “Police officials inspected the scene and the learners’ discovery was confirmed to be a human skeleton. The body was removed from the scene and police indicated that an inquest case will be investigated accordingly,” Mabona said. Gauteng police spokesperson Colonel Dimakatso Sello confirmed to The Star that the police in Alexandra opened an inquest docket. “The police in Alexandra have opened an inquest docket subsequent to the discovery of a skeleton at MC Weiler Primary School on June 2. An autopsy will be conducted as the police investigation continues,” Sello said. The department further dispatched its psycho-social unit to the school to provide counselling and trauma support for all affected learners and staff. “While we await further reports from the police regarding this matter, learning at the school will continue with necessary psycho-social support,” said Gauteng MEC for Education Panyaza Lesufi. SA Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) general secretary Mugwena Maluleke said the learners’ discovery of the body was disturbing for them and they needed psycho-social support to be able to deal with the trauma they suffered. “It’s a societal issue and let’s be honest, there is no law in South Africa. People do as they please,” the general secretary said. Maluleke said the incident was a reflection of South African society and the government and law enforcement’s weak hold on criminality. “We ought to do some introspection on ourselves as the people of South Africa and ask ourselves if we are raising our children accordingly, are we good role models, are we exposing our children to crime and are we exposing the criminals who do these things or are we harbouring them?” Maluleke said. @Chulu_M