Durban – The eThekwini Municipality has provided an eight-step guide on how eThekwini residents can read their utility bills after the floods. The eight-step guide is more like frequently asked questions. Here’s how the eThekwini Municipality said residents can read their utility bills after the floods: 1. I did not have water and electricity for weeks after the April floods, why am I still being charged? If your meter was not read, then estimations are done. Should you experience charges for water and electricity while you did not consume such services, forward your query to the city’s water and electricity departments. You can also forward your meter readings so that you will be charged accordingly. On receipt of the meter reading, adjustments will be made accordingly. 2. What is a billing cycle? Billing cycles are a period or number of days from the last day you were billed to the next billing date. 3. How often is my water and electricity meter read? Water meters should be read monthly and electricity meters should be read every three months. 4. What should I do if my bill is higher than my usage? You can visit a Sizakala Centre near you to query the account. You will be advised of the issues resulting in an anomaly, if any, on your account. It is also advisable to provide the current reading on your meter so that the account can be corrected. 5. Can I make a payment arrangement should I not be able to pay my bill because of loss of income due to the floods? Yes, you can visit the city’s Credit Control Section to make payment arrangements. Council has approved the debt relief programme, where if you make arrangements before June 30, 2022, you can benefit from interest write-offs and a certain percentage of your capital debt. This will be according to the terms and conditions of the agreement you sign. 6. If my home has been destroyed or we are no longer able to live in it due to the floods, will I still be charged for services? Due to estimations being done on the consumption of services where there are no actual meter readings, it will be advisable that you report the situation to the municipality. Once reported, the municipality will send inspectors to confirm that the property is uninhabitable and no services are being consumed before termination of the account can be done. 7. Do I need to report to the municipality’s revenue department that my home has been destroyed or is not habitable? Yes, as stated above. 8. If the water pipes were destroyed on my property due to the floods increasing my consumption, will I be liable? Such situations must be reported to the municipality so that they can be verified and a decision taken whether the customer is liable or not. Master testing will also be done to establish if everything is working properly. Daily News