Fans know Sicelo “Seekay” Buthelezi for his fascinating and cheerful portrayal of Teddy in the local drama series Gomora. Though he openly agrees that the two characters have few parallels, Buthelezi believes he is more ambitious and is a go-getter compared to Teddy. Not only is he a renowned actor, but a musician, a dancer, and an entertainer. With his myriad crafts, Buthelezi has proved to be a veritable jack of all trades. His deep-rooted passion for the arts has had him go for his wildest pursuits daringly. Growing up, the 23-year-old had displayed signs of an entertainer. He joined the local theatre to hone his skills and pursued a career as a multi-talented entertainer. He shares details about his latest offering, Harare, which he co-produced with international sensation Tony Duardo. This song follows the release of his debut single, “Ben 10”, which he released independently in 2021 and featured on two songs on an amapiano mixtape on “Black is Brown Vol 1”. Speaking about “Harare” he shared: “Tony Duardo and I made this song one afternoon. It was not planned, we were vibing. I loved the melody and strings. It gave me a sense of escape, my mind started travelling to different places that I would love to go to and I have never been to Harare, but it took me there. I do want to travel the world, by starting with our continent.  “This year I plan to release a full project, not an album but possibly an EP featuring some of my favourite artists: Ciza, Tony Duardo, Flvme and others.” In this song they have fused amapiano, Afrobeats, and chimurenga music.  Explaining chimurenga, Seekay said: “Chimurenga music is a Zimbabwean music genre coined and popularised by Thomas Mapfumo and Oliver Mtukudzi. This song will make your woman dance and fall in love, emphasising the fact that music and love are universal languages.”  Seekay added that remaining true to himself helps him know not to let fame get to his character. “I have learned that because people are constantly watching, some don’t wish me well and some do. I always have to watch my behaviour and be cognisant of what I do and say, while remaining true to myself. I also don’t ever want to let fame get to me.”