Siyabonga Sithole On World Drug Day this Sunday, 26 June 2022, gatvol Kathorus community members who have come together to fight the scourge of drug abuse crippling the youth of the small East Rand community, will march against substance abuse with a petition signed by members of the community. World Changers Candidates (WCC) Chairperson, Lucas Mahlakgane says the people of Katlehong, Thokoza and Vosloorus (Kathorus) have had enough with the prevailing drug abuse/addiction crisis and it’s direct and dire impact not only on families but on local communities’ economic as well as the social well being of the community at large. Mahlagane who works with young people battling drug and substance abuse says dealing with the issues of the scourge need decisive action from across the board. Mahlakganyane  also added that civil and political organisations are united with a single voice against substance abuse in a bid to intensify efforts towards the total eradication of substance abuse which he says is killing the future of young people in this country. "Drugs and substance abuse are a problem in our communities and as such,  we and the community are intensifying efforts - in unison - to tackle head-on, the dangerous monster threatening their very core existence and the community’s wellbeing through the launch of a petition on World Drug Day this Sunday, the 26th of June. He said the purpose of the petition is to ensure that enough support is generated to help drive policy interventions to end substance abuse. "The purpose of the petition is  to garner enough support and signatures to help drive coherent policy change to effectively tackle the prevalent drug abuse and illicit trafficking plaguing communities. The commemoration of World  Drug Day is informed and inspired by the resolution of a special session on Drugs by United Nation General Assembly in 1987 and is commemorated with different themes throughout the World. The day is also supported by individuals, organisations and governments to raise awareness about the dangers of Drugs and Substance Abuse brings in communities which is why, World Changers Candidate as a civil organisations is calling for mass mobilisation of the country's  youth to join in and help fight drug abuse in our communities "It is for this reason that the ‘gatvol’  Kathorus communities have joined hands with World Changers Candidates, and the local community radio station to launch the anti-substance petition with the hope of adding more voices to the movement. “We are therefore calling on everyone who’s directly or indirectly affected by the drug problem to be the change they want to see, and join us in our effort to ‘change the world one soul at a time for drug free nations’.  In so doing, we're are hoping that communities and the nation at large will realise that, in Martin Luther King’s wise words, ‘there’s power in numbers and there’s power in unity’, he said.” The call for the end of substance abuse in the communities of Kathorus will be led by local leaders  as well as members of the community marching from Katlehong CCC at  9am and finishing at Katlehong Hunters Field Stadium, where the petition will officially be launched to the public and signed by community members.