Composer and saxophonist Linda Sikhakhane returns with a profound piece of his artistry that explores crucial dimensions of freedom. Sikhakhane who is currently based in Norway adds his latest offering Inner Freedom to his rich list of work that reflects who he is and his surroundings. Speaking about his offering, the Durban-born artist said: “The essence behind the new single is freedom and what freedom means. I am trying to explore three dimensions of freedom which are the spiritual (the inner-freedom), psychological, and physical freedom.  “And what I am really trying to explore is the importance of how these three work hand-in-hand. and if one is not in shape with the other one it collapses the whole concept of freedom.” he shared Having been an artist for a long time Sikhakhane shared that his journey has been an intriguing one with plenty of lessons to take home. “My journey has been an interesting one with many lessons. I am just grateful that I was surrounded by people that could easily pick up this journey for me. And also direct me in the right direction.” His affinity for instruments started to show at the age of 9. He further learnt music theory when he was in primary school and also joined a music centre in uMlazi. The musician also spoke candidly about his relationship with the late iconic trumpeter Brian Thusi and how he showed him the ropes in the world of music. Asked about any differences in how his music is perceived in Norway compared to South Africa, the Codes of  Light music talent said: “I think people perceive the music differently because people are exposed to different cultures. And somehow I think the cultural aspect plays a huge role in sound.”  Sikhakhane mentioned the prolific Nduduzo Makhathini as one of the people whom he looks up to, adding that he was among the music heroes who inspired him. He highlighted that he would love to be recognised by his originality.  “I think originality is very important and we have so much from our concepts.’’