As the country celebrates Father’s Day at the height of unemployment and the economic downturn in the country, “Father A Nation” (FAN), is highlighting the critical role of fatherhood in shaping the young minds of boys, and young adults. FAN, an NGO working to encourage positive masculinity and fatherhood in South African communities is recognising and honouring men who are rising to the task of healing the nation by loving their children, and treating fatherhood as an action rather than just a state of being. FAN chief executive Craig Wilkinson revealed that family dynamics demonstrate the importance of balanced homes where children have more than one caregiver, and the value of the role a father plays in this relationship, In South Africa about one-fifth (21.3%) of children aged 17 years and under, don’t live with their parents. “For one thing, men have been at the forefront of numerous endeavours to mobilise communities to improve the role of men in society, fight gender-based violence GBV and teach boys and men the values of being a man and fatherhood, including our very own FAN,” Wilkinson said. “Fathers, uncles and grandfathers who have stepped up and set an example that others can and should follow, need to be applauded and encouraged. Slowly but surely, men are beginning to step up where they are needed, in unprecedented ways,” said Wilkinson. “We are seeing more single-fathers, stepfathers and co-parenting fathers showing the many ways we can make fatherhood work in South Africa, even in the most difficult of circumstances.” More and more men are getting involved in fighting gender-based violence and teaching boys and men the values of manhood.  He further pointed out that, “The message that true masculinity is a powerful force for good and teaching about what that means, needs to be driven home at all levels of society – in homes, communities, and the workplace,” he said. Wilkinson said if children could be allowed the foundational nurturing of fatherhood, a tremendous potential would be unlocked.