Popular Amapiano sensation Kabza De Small had South Africans bursting with pride after being featured on the Spotify billboard in Times Square in New York alongside the release of his latest album, “KOA II Part 1”. This happened on the occasion of South Africa’s Youth Month, and in commemoration of the US marking the emancipation of enslaved people on June 19, “Juneteenth”. Kabza De Small whose real name is Kabelo Motha has made a footprint in the entertainment industry beyond the South African shores. After being listed as one of the people who made a lasting impact in making the Amapiano known and loved, the star has gained massive recognition for his work.  There is no denying that the Amapiano genre has seen growing worldwide popularity, with an international listenership steadily on the rise, since South Africa saw the genre’s emergence in early 2010. A musical movement entrenched in the experiences and culture of the South African youth, Amapiano serves not only as the evolution of South African sound and culture, but also as one of the hottest dance genres that listeners around the world are streaming right now. Speaking about Amapiano, Kabza shared that, “Amapiano is not something that was involved with a lot of things. Like now, this is when they are starting to brand Amapiano.  “Amapiano developed on its own, do you understand? Like with labels and stuff. We started this thing from scratch. There wasn’t too much sampling; those things are only starting now. It’s something that was innovated,” Kabza said. Kabza De Small’s highly anticipated album “KOA II Part 1” is set to take listeners on a musical journey, with each song on the album creating an emotive and captivating mood. As part of his global takeover, Kabza has also made the exciting announcement of his upcoming European tour, including stops in Barcelona (Spain) for a six-hour set at Sónar festival in London at the legendary Ministry of Sound, as well as in Portimao (Portugal) at the Afronation festival.