The devastated family of the three brothers, who were allegedly poisoned to death by their father, are still trying to understand how the tragic incident happened as the boys were laid to rest. The funeral services of Lehlohonolo Khoabane, 16, Katleho Khoabane, 13, and Teboho Ngcongwane, 6, the three brothers who were alleged poisoned by their father, took place on Saturday at the Ratanda Multipurpose Centre, Ratanda. The three children, who were learners at Ratanda Primary School and Khanya Lesedi Secondary School, respectively, died after drinking an energy drink allegedly poisoned by their father, on Thursday, May 26, after their mother left for work.  The brothers’ condition worsened while at school and they succumbed, while their father was arrested for murder and attempted murder. The devastated grandfather of the deceased brothers, Johannes Khoabane, while speaking at the funeral, said he was devastated that his son-in-law allegedly killed his grandsons. “He was a gentle and kind person. We trusted him. I believed that my daughter was in good hands but it turned out that the devil was walking among us,” the grandfather said. The family loved the father like he was their own child and he was always giving to the family, good and smiling, he said. “He was good and ever-smiling; that is why we are so confused about what he did. We loved him and he loved us but he turned out to be a wolf in sheep’s clothing. I’m sad beyond measure. I’m really heartbroken,” Khoabane said. The grandfather said the family had tried to understand the poisoning of the boys and asked their mother, who is married to the suspect, what went wrong and if they were fighting but she said they were on good terms when she left for work that morning. Khanya Lesedi Secondary School principal, Frans Mollo, called for more empowerment for educators and school management in paramedic training. “Let every single school have specialised staff who know what to do when learners are sick at school,” Mollo said. The principal spoke about a similar incident that occurred in Ivory Park where two Kaalfontein Primary School learners Mpho Ngobeni (6) and Lerato Ngobeni (8) died on May 31, along with Shirley Ngobeni, their 1e-year-old sibling, after all three of them allegedly consumed rat poison. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi visited the family on Friday to convey his deepest condolences to the family and assure necessary support. “Community, let us rebuke these particular spirits that are prevailing in our communities and schools ... We need to humble ourselves before the Lord,” Mollo said. Lesufi, in his tribute to the brothers, said the department was again saying farewell to learners who died instead of saying goodbye when they went to tertiary education. “To the family, we want to extend our sincere condolences to you not only because you lost your children but because we believe the way they left this world was so unfortunate,” the MEC said. Lesufi added that the death of the learners was also difficult for Gauteng schools because the deceased brothers’ mother was also an educator at the Gauteng Department of Education. “We remain hopeful that the kind of support the family received from all communities will continue to strengthen her and also ensure that the family come out with this situation as a better family,” the MEC said. @Chulu_M