The South African Bone Marrow Registry (SABMR) has activated a nationwide search to find a suitable bone marrow stem cell donor for a six-year-old little girl. In March this year, six-year-old Fanele Memela was diagnosed with Acute Myeloid Leukaemia. However, none of her family members were a viable bone marrow stem cell donor match. The little girl is currently undergoing chemotherapy until a matching donor is found. Her mother, Gugu Mkhulisi, said as a parent, all they want to do is help and protect their child. However, in this instance, there is little Mkhulisi can do. “It broke my heart when the doctors shared the news that none of us offered a good enough match. While this journey has been tough, it has opened my eyes to so much that I didn’t know about. I have learned about the dire shortage of black donors on the registry, which makes it so difficult for children like Fanele to get the help they need,” the mother said. In order to find a suitable donor for little Fanele, SABMR has activated a nationwide search and will be ramping up donor recruitment efforts to give the little girl from Durban, KwaZulu-Natal, a second chance. According to the organisation, black donors only make up 10% of registered donors, and that means there is a slim chance of finding a match for Fanele and other children like her. Fanele’s mother is appealing to her fellow black South Africans to become bone marrow stem cell donors. “A patients’ best chance of finding a match is within their own ethnic group. The lack of donors of colour is not unique to South Africa. Globally, there is a 27% chance of people of colour finding a match, compared to that of Europeans, who have a 70% chance of finding a comparable tissue match,” SABMR said. The organisation said it is for this reason that SABMR is raising funds alongside the family to bolster donor recruitment efforts. SABMR Sustainability and Donor Recruitment Coordinator for KwaZulu-Natal, Kapil Premchand, said around 200 cases are referred to the SABMR annually, and the goal is to eventually be able to assist every patient. “Our mission is to save as many lives as possible. Often, we find ourselves in a position where there is no suitable match, as is in Fanele’s case, but this doesn’t deter our efforts. With this campaign, we aim to raise R500 000, which will help to get as many black donors as possible between the ages of 16 and 45 to sign up to the registry,” Premchand said. Mkhulisi, who refers to her daughter as a superhero, said Fanele has many things she aspires to and hopes that her daughter gets the second chance she wishes for. “Her future aspirations change as often as the weather. She has recently decided that she no longer wants to be a doctor (like me) but rather a singer. She loves her little brother, who is six-months old, and I would like for her to be around to spend many more years with him as they already share such a special bond,” the mother said. @Chulu_M