Johannesburg City Parks and Zoo partnership with the Johannesburg Parks Alliances have launched their first inaugural Action Imbizo where they displayed some of their exciting projects planned to restore and create sustainability for local parks. This happens during World Environmental Month and this initiative seeks to explore the power of partnerships, to build safe and well-managed parks and green lungs in the City of Joburg. The Star spoke to Andrew Harris, one of the partners in the initiative, who has a passion for community and development. “I have been involved with this project for the last five years and (came) into the Sandton sports club which has been sort of left derelict and created pockets of different businesses inside an existing sports club. “ So we have got people that run businesses in the different sports codes that they do. And obviously what we have done is to expand the restaurants. And  it has given us the ability to say this is a proof of concept and this can be replicable.” Harris added that they look after abandoned spaces and also ensure that they are well maintained. “So where the city or the communities have an environment at their disposal, whether they are parks, open spaces, they are old or sports clubs that have been abandoned, we have the ability to bring funding into it and most importantly, to bring a level of management and ongoing maintenance.” He highlighted that it was essential for them to deliver other projects in the city. Joburg’s mayoral committee member for community development Ronald Harris said that these initiatives play a significant role in growing both the urban and the township economy. He also said that the basic aim was to find innovative solutions to navigate through many environmental, safety, and societal challenges facing Johannesburg. Ronald is responsible for looking after the well-being of people from  their mental, physical to their spiritual health. He also ensures that certain policies and procedures are free, fair, and equitable for political oversight of community development.