THE much-anticipated three-day London Fashion Week kicked off with no hesitation to showcase explosive collections crafted by various creative designers. This second fashion event of the year was presented by Clearpay from June 11, as a digital-physical hybrid, showcasing both womenswear and menswear brands, and will wrap things up on June 13. The London Fashion Week is one of the “Big Four” fashion weeks, along with New York, Milan and Paris. The day 2 digital schedule included DiscoveryLAB shows from ABAGA VELLI and Lea Nyland Studio as well as digital presentations from Agnė Kuzmickaitė, Ahluwalia and QASIMI and a physical show from Yuzefi. Fashion fanatics from across the globe know that the London Fashion Week boasts designers and models from all walks of life. Their talents are seen on the runways as models walk confidently and exhibit all the phenomenal ideas brought to life by selected designers. The schedule included over 30 confirmed participating designers and organisations activating across a range of catwalk shows, presentations, appointments, events, and digital activations available on the Official Digital Hub. British Fashion Council as the principal partner of London Fashion Week shared that this continued commitment will help ensure British designers continue to lead in innovation, creativity and accessibility. “We know things have been tough for businesses big and small during these challenging times. Retail is deeply embedded in our roots. We want to boost the industry and help our shoppers discover emerging local brands along the way. “We believe you should get closer to the fashion you love. From young designers to luxury brands, we’re inviting you to experience it all by giving you insider access to London Fashion Week with never-seen-before innovation.” The chief executive of the British Fashion Council Caroline Rush also suggested the format is here to stay; “At the beginning of the global pandemic, in June 2020, we made the decision to merge London Fashion Week and London Fashion Week Men’s onto a digital platform, giving designers greater flexibility, a decision which was based on feedback from designers.”