The Pan-African Private Sector Trade and Investment Committee (PAFTRAC) has announced the launch of the 2nd edition of its Africa CEO Trade Survey. The focus this year will be on the opportunities being created by the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement. The AfCFTA agreement creates the largest free trade area in the world, by the number of countries participating, and under which trading commenced in January 2021. The participation of the private sector is crucial to the success of the AfCFTA. The Africa CEO Trade Survey is an initiative by PAFTRAC that provides the continent’s private sector a platform to engage on localized and pan-African trade policies. The survey results are presented in a report format that seeks to advocate private sector views to inform policy reform and shape the future of African trade. The AfCFTA agreement creates the largest free trade area in the world, by the number of countries participating, and under which trading commenced in January 2021. The participation of the private sector is crucial to the success of the AfCFTA. The Africa CEO Trade Survey is an initiative by PAFTRAC that provides the continent’s private sector a platform to engage on localized and pan-African trade policies. The survey results are presented in a report format that seeks to advocate private sector views to inform policy reform and shape the future of African trade. “The opportunity that the AfCFTA brings to businesses across the continent is enormous, that is why we must get the implementation right. The private sector wants and needs to be an ally in this process.” said Prof Patrick Utomi, Chairperson of PAFTRAC, commenting on the launch of the Africa CEO Trade Survey. “We call on business leaders from across the continent to make your voices heard by participating in this survey” he added. “The opportunity that the AfCFTA brings to businesses across the continent is enormous, that is why we must get the implementation right. The private sector wants and needs to be an ally in this process.” said Prof Patrick Utomi, Chairperson of PAFTRAC, commenting on the launch of the Africa CEO Trade Survey. “We call on business leaders from across the continent to make your voices heard by participating in this survey” he added. Last year’s survey spanned 46 countries and welcomed responses from over 400 African CEOs.