Shutdown or no Shutdown? That seems to be the question with no one seemingly knowing whether the country will wake up to a normal working day or a day of action and protest against rising fuel and food costs in the country. With social media messages circulated amid concerns of a national shutdown this, morning (Friday June 10), the National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (Natjoints) has issued out a warning against those found to be circulating messages of an imminent strike adding that it has put measures in place to react to the possible shutdown should it happen. Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) as well as taxi industry bodies such as South African National Tax Council (Santaco) and the Taxi Alliance have all distanced themselves from the national shutdown across the country. Natjoints  said it is aware of unsigned messages and posters being circulated on social media about a shutdown intended to give voice to fuel price hikes and other social problems affecting South Africans. “Those behind these messages are warned and reminded that prohibiting people's freedom of movement is a criminal offence. Members of the public are therefore cautioned against spreading such messages that seek to mobilize communities to respond to the shutdown,” a statement from the structure says. The NATJOINTS I says it is calling on South Africans to work together with law enforcement agencies protecting and upholding the enforcement of law and order as any  action aimed at contravening the law, will be dealt with accordingly. Athlenda  Mathe of Natjoints says the statement comes after the organization held a meeting on Wednesday where they were briefed by the Intelligence Coordinating Committee( ICC) on the validity of the call for a National Shutdown. “ The Intelligence community is closely monitoring the situation and the associated risks. With this said, law enforcement officers have been deployed and are on high alert to prevent and combat any forms of criminality,” Mathe said. “The respective PROVJOINTS have been directed to ensure multidisciplinary deployments and that the necessary contingency plans are in place.  The NATJOINTS assures members of the public that enforcement of the law will be executed within relevant prescripts to ensure stability in the communities is maintained and restored,” Mathe added. On social media Santaco said its members will not be taking party in any planned or unplanned strike or shutdown this morning (Friday). “ Santaco has never lobbied any organisation for a national shutdown. We still, however, hold the view that there's an urgent intervention  needed from the government  and this is despite looming taxi fare increases,” the taxi body said. The National Taxi Association also echoed the same sentiments with the association's spokesperson, Theo Malele saying they will first want to ensure that they exhaust all available avenues of dialogue before embarking on a strike against fuel price hikes. “We want to ensure that we have exhausted all available avenues of dialogue with the government  before embarking on a shutdown. Only if that fails will we look at going ahead with such a shutdown which should be done with like minded civil groups and businesses,” Malele said.