The South African Democratic Teachers’ Union in the North West Province (SADTU) expressed shocked and saddened by the news of the shooting and murder of a 45 year old female educator at Rutanang Primary School. It is alleged that the horrific incident happened just outside the school in Geelhout Park near Rustenburg on a gate on Tuesday. Immediately after the incident happened an onlooker arrived and called the police and the paramedics. The paramedics on their arrival declared the educator dead. The union called on law enforcement to make arrests. “This incident confirms our long-standing view that our schools are no longer safe for Teachers and Learners,” said Sadtu’s Provincial Secretary George Themba. “We continue to call on every member of the society to protect teachers, learners, and education workers, “ Themba said.. Themba said the  union implores the community at large to support their campaign of I AM A SCHOOL FAN that seeks, amongst others, to denounce violence in schools. “Whilst we might not be aware of the motive for the killing, we condemn such a heinous act. We call on the law enforcement agencies to do everything possible to hunt down, apprehend the perpetrators and successfully prosecute. We appreciate the swift move by the department of education to send a team of counselors to deal with the trauma affecting staff members, learners, and community of Rutanang Primary School. We send our heartfelt condolences to the family as well as the school community,” Themba said.. The North West Department of Education MEC Mmaphefo Matsemela condemned the incident. "On behalf of the department l am extremely angry by the situation and strongly condemn this horrible incident that happened in front of our school. I am totally disappointed that all the social ills from the community are finding expression in our schools,” said Matsemela. Matsemela further said that communities are a reflection of what is happening in our schools.  “Now it's time as a society we reflect on these challenges facing our schools. I believe the police will find those behind the horrible incident", said Matsemela. The department sent a team of counsellors who have already started counselling of both the learners and the educators affected by the incident. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za