By: Siyabonga Sithole President Cyril Ramaphosa has dismissed allegations of kidnapping, money laundering and defeating the ends of justice laid against him by former State Security Agency boss, Arthur Fraser. On Wednesday, Fraser released a statement detailing that he had laid criminal charges against Ramaphosa on kidnapping and money laundering grounds. This all happened at his Phala Phala farm in Limpopo on 9 February 2020 Reacting to the allegations levelled against him Ramaphosa dismissed the claims and Fraser’s accusations of criminal conduct. “President Ramaphosa is clear that there's  no basis for the claims of criminal conduct that have been made against him,” the president said in a statement prepared by his office. According to the statement, Ramaphosa was made aware of these allegations  through a media statement that Fraser had lodged a complaint with the SAPS. According to the former spy boss, around 4 million USD in cash was stolen and that the suspected criminals were kidnapped and interrogated with the President  concealing this incident from the police and tax authorities. This incident is said to have taken place at the President's farm which is located near Bela Bela in Limpopo. On Wednesday, the police also confirmed that a case of alleged money laundering, defeating the ends of justice and kidnapping was opened against the president by Arthur Fraser in Rosebank. The president's recently appointed spokesperson, Vincent Mangwenya said the president was in a meeting for most of last night  when the allegations against him surfaced on social media and promised that the president would respond on Thursday. The President has since responded to the allegations through a statement issued by the Presidency in which he denies the allegations of kidnapping but confirmed that he was away on official business when the incident happened. “President Ramaphosa is clear that there’s no basis for the claims of criminal conduct that has been made. The President was attending an African Union summit in Addis Ababa  at the time of the incident. On being advised of the robbery, president Ramaphosa reported the incident to the Head of the Presidential Protection Unit of the South  African Police Service,” reads the statement. The president indicates that he stands ready to cooperate with any law enforcement  agency on investigations of this matter against him.