By: Siyabonga Sithole The morale of South Africans is currently at its lowest levels with sky-rocketing food and fuel hikes being at the centre of distrust  between leaders and citizens. According to former Statistician General Dr Pali Lehohla , the country has entered a state of disaster called the gwaragwara state where nothing functions. This was the sobering analysis delivered by Lehohla, whose presentation titled: ‘The Era of the Idiot' on the state of the ANC dropped jaws at the plenary session of the ANC Greater Johannesburg  15th regional conference at Idlewinds Lodge and Conference Centre in Centurion. Produced and published by the Indlulmithi Barometer in 2019, the new research tool measures the extent in which a state of crises and paralysis was emerging in the country with one of the stages being the Isibhujwa scenario followed by the Muvhango scenario and the worst of the three being the gwaragwara scenario. The presentation by the former head of Statistics SA delivered the same chilling effect of the Indlulamithi  Barometer, which uses indicators such as corruption, divisions within the ruling party, institutional capacity and lack of decisive leadership and qualified audits of SEOs and municipalities were all indicative of the state of gwaragwara scenario. Lehohla did not mince his words when he described the past 28 years of a free democracy saying it has entered the worst scenario which is the gwaragwara state where no plans are working. The former statistics general said unemployment, lack of education, low economic growth and debt to GDP ratio were all signs of how bad things have become in the country, adding that the ANC has failed to implement its own policies. “ South Africa is the only country that has massive pensions. But why do we borrow from the markets and other lending agencies when we could be using our own pension funds. We have about R3 trillion in assets that we can borrow from but we choose to borrow from the markets instead. We need to cleanse ourselves from this,” he said. Lehohla castigated the ruling party for its ability to think and create new policies that are good on paper but never get implemented, thus creating a state of paralysis. “The policies of the ANC are good on paper but have not changed the material conditions of ordinary South Africans. In the last 28 years, the  ANC gave us RDP, Gear, NDP  but that has not benefited the people. Even at the height of FeesMustFall, there were telltale signs of disaster but the ANC chose to ignore these signs. As things stand, we are at the cliff which is the Muvhango scenario characterized  by corruption, unemployment as well as declining efficiency levels,” he said. Instead of participating in the economy and other areas of social compact, South Africans have become weary and suspicious of participating in politics choosing instead to voice themselves through community based formations such Operation Dudula. All of these are indicators that the country has entered the gwaragwara scenario which is also characterised by huge levels of inequality, and steep decline in trust and belief. Dr Lehohla further asked the members of the ANC what is it that they will begin to do differently to change the material conditions of the people of South Africa especially the unemployed South Africans battling to put food on the table. “Let us then ask the question. What will you deliver given the magnitude of challenges faced by the poor people of this country because South Africa has dropped the ball and lost the plot to Egypt and Nigeria with low levels of growth?,” he asked.