Siyabonga Sithole The Democratic  Alliance (DA) shadow minister of justice and constitutional development, Glynnis  Breytenbach has called for a full investigation of the recent R225 million IT tender awarded to multinational media and technology company, Thomson Reuters. Calls for the investigation come after, a Sunday Times report that three former officials from the Office of the Chief Justice (OCJ) who have since resigned to start their own consulting firm had set themselves up to benefit from a multi million rand IT contract they had helped facilitate while they were still with the office of the chief justice. It was reported that the contract relates to the national rollout of case lines project system, a  digital and electronic case management and litigation system which was piloted at the High courts in Pretoria and Johannesburg to allow virtual hearings of court proceedings in court. The three officials involved in this are former CFO, Casper Coetzee  and former spokesperson and chief director, Nathi Mncube and  case management director, Yvonne  van Niekerk whose newly established company,  ZA Square Consulting would gain a sub-contracting contract worth R67.5 million in the process. They had served their last day at OCJ on 31 May and began their new roles at ZA Square Consulting as of 1 June 2022. The DA has since issued a statement calling for the office to institute an investigation of corruption following this expose adding that the office of the chief justice should be beyond reproach in its dealings. “The Chief Justice's office should be beyond reproach at all times and serve as a model for clean, corrupt free administration. It is deeply troubling that the OCJ's reputation and credibility is being jeopardised, especially on the eve of the release of the final Zondo report on Wednesday, June 15,” Breytenbach said in a statement. Furthermore, the party said it calls for a speedily instituted investigation of this deal to ensure that corruption is nipped in the bud. “The DA calls on the OCJ to speedily investigate this deal, establish if any procurement procedures were flouted and why, and if so hold all individuals who engaged in corrupt practices to account,” says the shadow minister. On Sunday, OCJ  responded to the Sunday Times report saying the office is still gathering all the relevant information about this deal and assured taxpayers that their money is in safe hands. “As stated to The Sunday Times, OCJ is currently  gathering all the relevant information relating to the matter and is taking legal advice. At the appropriate time, OCJ will inform the public in the matter. We can assure the public that the state funds relating to this matter are safe,” reads the statement from the office. The office said it will not be responding to any enquiries about the matter at this point and will once everything has been looked into report its direction. “ In view of this, OCJ will not at this stage be making any further comments or providing any additional information  in this regard.” added the statement.