A backlog in DNA testing backlog has led to delays with the burial of Tshepang Pitse, who was murdered and mutilated by her husband in Soweto last year. The Protea Magistrate’s Court yesterday heard that the case concerning murder accused Flavio Hlabangwane had been blocked by numerous delays because of a backlog in the DNA tests being done by forensics. The Star understands that not all of Tshepang’s body parts have been found, including the upper body. Hlabangwane had earlier agreed to show police where his wife's body parts were, but only the head and some limbs were found.  The Star understands that police were still running tests on the body parts. Hlabangwane’s lawyer had complained in court that the case was dragging and not going anywhere. This led to the prosecution explaining that the case had been postponed for several reasons, including for Hlabangwane’s mental capacity to be checked. He appeared in court through video link.  The court also heard that the matter would be moved to the Johannesburg High Court sitting at the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court. According to the State, more exhibits were still being found that were linked to the case. Meanwhile, Tshepang’s sister, Tshenolo, told The Star that her family was struggling to deal with the grief because her sister’s full body had not been found. Tshenolo said she was heartbroken that several months since her sister’s brutal death, but they had still not buried her. “This is painful. We cannot close this chapter because not all of my sister’s body parts have been found,” said Tshenolo. Tshenolo said she had not spoken to her sister months before she died because she did not approve of her first cousin marrying her sister. Hlabangwane has apparently also tried to put a wedge between the two sisters. “I last spoke to my sister last February. They tried hard to separate us and now look at what happened,” Tshenolo said. She said she believed her sister was used in a ritual, and that is why her body parts are still not found.  Some believe that Tshepang’s murder was associated with an inheritance payout that she and her sister were supposed to receive. It was not clear if doctors had declared Hlabangwane mentally fit to stand trial, but the 26-year-old had attempted killing himself several times following his incarceration. Hlabangwane was put behind bars last year in November after his new girlfriend found some body parts in the fridge at Hlabangwane’s home while looking for food.  She screamed, looking for help while Hlabangwane was at the shop. This led the community of Protea Glen to the grim discovery in the fridge. The Star understands that Hlabangwane’s family is divided over the matter, casting out Hlabangwane’s mother from the family and blaming her for orchestrating a marriage between two cousins. The case was postponed to July 28.