As the search for the missing 6-year-old boy, Khayalethu Magadla continues for yet another day in Dlamini Soweto, leader of ActionSA, Herman Mashaba paid his visit to the Magadla family on Thursday. Mashaba and his team are the latest officials from the city of Johannesburg who have visited the family following the 6-year- old’s disappearance on Sunday after reportedly falling inside a manhole situated a stones throw from his family home. Speaking at the scene of the incident  after his private talk with the family, Mashaba lamented the lack of progress being made in finding the missing boy, five days after the accident adding that he will speak to MMC of Public Safety, David Tembe about intensifying efforts in finding the Grade 1 learner. Mashaba also bemoaned the destruction of infrastructure currently taking place in the neighborhood battling vandalism of electricity pylons and other structures by nyaope addicts. "Fortunately  we are the one of the governing parties in the city of Johannesburg.  I will be speaking to MMC, David Tembe to speed up and intensify their search.  If they are struggling, they must tell us so we can approach the private rescuers who help with the search. The family needs to be afforded respect and they need closure.  It is important for them to assisted and supported in order for them to get closure on what happened to their son," Mashaba said. Members of the community, accompanied by family spokesperson, Zakhele Khumalo took Mashaba and his team to the scene of the incident where they child was last seen playing with friends. Mashaba was briefed on the challenges the community and the family had undergone since the day of the accident.  The manhole which has since been cemented and closed with a heavy lead remains accessible to would be vandalisers as it is not securely locked. With the high rate of theft of infrastructure another incident of this nature and possible theft remains a possible likelihood. "You see how easy it is to open this manhole. There needs to be something done to make sure that the lead is properly locked in to avoid would be thieves to simply open this drainage system," Khumalo told Mashaba and his team. Mashaba was then taken to a nearby pylon which is being slowly vandalized with some of its supporting steel structures already cut off. The structure which is barely holding firmly to the ground is one of many structures being destroyed by addicts around Soweto and other areas. “Over and above the manhole accident and the stolen leads of the drainage system, something very disturbing has been brought to my attention. This pylon supplying electricity to the community of Dlamini and other areas is gradually being destroyed by nyaope addicts and scrap yards.  I am saying to you as South Africans, if we really do not really wake up, the loss of this child is going to look like Sunday school. Can you imagine if this pylon collapses, how many lives will be disrupted. The disruption to the community of Dlamini and  other areas will be too great.  So I am calling on all South Africans to wake up to this reality. This issue of scrap yards business needs to be looked at, otherwise if you are not prepared to, we must then accept the consequences thereof,” he said. Mashaba promised to look into the issues and said those responsible for the theft of infrastructure should be held accountable because theft of infrastructure was akin to treason adding that the family should be compensated for the negligence by officials of the city as they should have ensured that the manhole is secured to avoid loss of life and similar accidents. "This is pure treason. How can we allow people to come from nowhere and steal important infrastructure.....I know  that money will not bring their child back but I feel the family should be compensated for the negligence  that has resulted in this accident. We as one of the governing parties in the multi-party coalition are calling for something to be done,” he said. Members of the community who have been there in support of the family since Sunday also held a candle lighting and prayer ceremony which Mashaba joined after his tour of the park. Mashaba's visit to the Magadla family comes after mayor of Johannesburg Mpho Phalatse and MMC of environment infrastructure services, Michael Sun, Health MMC Ashely Sauls and other members of the City of Johannesburg  on Wednesday with the Mayor saying the city will not rest until Khayalethu is found. "As the city we gave committed ourselves to continue with the search for the young boy until he is found. Our support also goes to the Magadla family regardless of the outcome of the rescue operation.  We also pray for the family and the community of Dlamini who have literally been here since day one from the morning until late in the evening,” the mayor said during her visit.