The ANC Greater Johannesburg Region is working towards reclining the City of Joburg municipality which they lost to the DA and its multiparty government. This was revealed by newly elected Regional Chairperson Dada Morero who clinched victory against Eunice Mgcina (153 vs 143) during the elective conference in the early hours of this morning. The conference is being held at Idle Winds Lodge and Conference Centre in Centurion which is owned by ANC member Mike Maile. Watch: ANC newly elected chairperson Dads Morero ssys the ANC is ready to reclaim the city of Joburg pic.twitter.com/YyDHEalurs “We will reclaim the City of Joburg we have engaged with progressive parties in the city already reclaim political power and we are convinced it will happen before the end of the year because majority of the parties that are there including the coalition parties are not happy in the way in which the DA, they believe that the party has no intention to raise the profile of Johannesburg in fact it will be in their interest to collapse Johannesburg in favour of giving space to the City of Cape Town to be number one in the world affairs and we are not going to allow it and the parties agree that it is time to collapse the DA,” said Morero. He said he is excited about being given the opportunity to be a regional chairperson. Watch: Newly elected ANC Greater JHB Chairperson, Dada Morero @nntombi_nkosi pic.twitter.com/BBQvyeZu69 “I am excited, I am happy I have this responsibility and I have accepted it with two hands and I will execute it,” said Morero. Morero could not confirm which of the ANC Provincial candidates for the upcoming conference they are leaning towards, with Panyaza Lesufi and Lebohang Maile vying for the top seat. The provincial conference is expected to take place at the end of  June 2022. “We are concluding the conference today branches of Johannesburg had pronounced and we will go back and make an assessment on who has been pronounced and make a declaration therefore as the region, it is not the matter who is decided by individual as a chair so we will make an assessment this week before the provincial conference then the Johannesburg region will declare who their preferred candidate”,’ Morero said. He said that the day’s programme will start where the top five leadership will be officially declared and several commissions including organisational renewal base document, elections then reclaiming the city would take place. He urged comrades that they have the responsibility to build the organisation. “The chairperson of the Province David Makhura instructed us in his speech that it doesn’t matter who wins, all of us still have a responsibility to build the ANC. We will be deeply involved in the renewal project of the ANC which includes dealing with  those who have done wrong and compromise the ANC because of their conduct and behaviour having contributed to corruption that the ANC will clean ourselves of those individuals without fear or favour.  We have to do it otherwise we will not be able to reclaim the confidence of the people. As the chairperson I will take that approach of cleaning the party of wrong doers”, Morero said. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za