The court application was dismissed with coots. The Court  heard an urgent application against the hosting of the ANC provincial policy conference.amid ANC Ekurhuleni member, Jabulani Sithole took the matter to the Johannesburg High Court with the view to "review and set aside" the PEC's decision to hold the conference following the issue of 14 quarantined votes from five branches around 7 PM on Saturday. A source close to the outgoing provincial Secretary the applicant (Sithole)) was allowed to vote on the conference. ( earlier he was excluded since he was one of the quarantined votes from Ekurhuleni. After 10 AM delegates went back to plenary and credentials were adopted. Nominations and voting were yet to happen. On Sunday morning the conference is expected to adopt the nominations and voting for the new leadership. “We welcome the courts judgement. Sithole is welcome to participate in the conference, ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said while addressing the media after 11PM. By 6am on Sunday morning, all reports were adopted, the conference is now entering the nominations process, ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said the ANC is the governing party in the province and it could not rise without saying what kinnd of a state programs they were expected to drive to change the lives of people of Gauteng. “A lot of political parties think that Gauyrng is up for grabs so we need to tell them that more work is being done to make sure that we consolidate our democratic “We reassure the people of Gautebg that we are still a party they can still trust going to that future but we do so by admitting to certain mistakes we might have done in the past?”, the mistakes that could have contributed to the decline. We are hoping that coming out of this we will be able to change things on the ground, that is what the ANC is all about. Everyone in the conference is carrying that kind of interest,” Mabr said. Today it is the 67th anniversary of the Freedom Charter. Mabe said it’s always been a program of tge ANC to use the last day of conference to receive the freedom charter lecture by thr president . “It is not the first time that the ANCfund itself to hace extended time to deal with the business of conference. We can’t constraint ourselves when we not done. Remember it’s a 3 day conference that must produce the leadership of four years… in actual fact we should be taking a week like the community of China because they deal with a lot of issues,” said Mabe Mabe said if President Cyril Ramaphosa arrive and is expected to speak while they are not done with the program of conference, they will pause and allow him to address delegates. He said comrades were not hostile to each other but they started the conversation late. “We have committed ourselves that we will do everything in our power that at the conclusion of this conference the entire business of the conference is covered. We are expecting the entirety is business of conference will be done,@ he said. Mabe said they will work hard to make sure that by way of consensus could have credentials affect so that they could proceed with the business of contact Around 7AM the conference entered the item if elections, the made sure that all the people present are duly accredited in order to vote. Bothe Panyaza Lesufi and Leboga are vying for the position of chairperson. Delegates sang and showed their support to the two factions. The Johannesburg High Court had struck off an interdict application to halt the 14th ANC Gauteng Provincial Conference on Saturday night. The court application was dismissed with coots. The Court  heard an urgent application against the hosting of the ANC provincial policy conference.amid ANC Ekurhuleni member, Jabulani Sithole took the matter to the Johannesburg High Court with the view to "review and set aside" the PEC's decision to hold the conference following the issue of 14 quarantined votes from five branches around 7 PM on Saturday. A source close to the outgoing provincial Secretary the applicant (Sithole)) was allowed to vote on the conference. ( earlier he was excluded since he wa one of the quarantined votes from Ekurhuleni. After 10 AM delegates went back to plenary and credentials awere adopted. Nominations and voting were yet to happen. On Sundat morning the conference is expected to adopt the nominations and voting for the new leadership. “We welcome the courts judgement. Sithole is welcome to participate in the conference, ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said while addressing the media after 11PM. By 6am on Sunday morning, all reports were adopted, the conference is now entering the nominations process, ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said the ANC is the governing party in the province and it could not rise without saying what kinnd of a state programs they were expected to drive to change the lives of people of Gauteng. “A lot of political parties think that Gauyrng is up for grabs so we need to tell them that more work is being done to make sure that we consolidate our democratic “We reassure the people of Gautebg that we are still a party they can still trust going to that future but we do so by admitting to certain mistakes we might have done in the past?”, the mistakes that could have contributed to the decline. We are hoping that coming out of this we will be able to change things on the ground, that is what the ANC is all about. Everyone in the conference is carrying that kind of interest,” Mabr said. Today it is the 67th anniversary of the Freedom Charter. Mabe said it’s always been a program of tge ANC to use the last day of conference to receive the freedom charter lecture by thr president . “It is not the first time that the ANCfund itself to hace extended time to deal with the business of conference. We can’t constraint ourselves when we not done. Remember it’s a 3 day conference that must produce the leadership of four years… in actual fact we should be taking a week like the community of China because they deal with a lot of issues,” said Mabe Mabe said if President Cyril Ramaphosa arrive and is expected to speak while they are not done with the program of conference, they will pause and allow him to address delegates. He said comrades were not hostile to each other but they started the conversation late. “We have committed ourselves that we will do everything in our power that at the conclusion of this conference the entire business of the conference is covered. We are expecting the entirety is business of conference will be done,@ he said. Mabe said they will work hard to make sure that by way of consensus could have credentials affect so that they could proceed with the business of contact Around 7AM the conference entered the item if elections, the made sure that all the people present are duly accredited in order to vote. Both Panyaza Lesufi and Lebohang Maile are vying for the position of chairperson. Delegates sang and showed their support to the two factions.  The Johannesburg High Court had struck off an interdict application to halt the 14th ANC Gauteng Provincial Conference on Saturday night. The court application was dismissed with costs. The Court  heard an urgent application against the hosting of the ANC provincial policy conference.amid ANC Ekurhuleni member, Jabulani Sithole took the matter to the Johannesburg High Court with the view to "review and set aside" the PEC's decision to hold the conference following the issue of 14 quarantined votes from five branches around 7 PM on Saturday. A source close to the outgoing provincial Secretary the applicant (Sithole)) was allowed to vote on the conference. ( earlier he was excluded since he wa one of the quarantined votes from Ekurhuleni. After 10 AM delegates went back to plenary and credentials were adopted. Nominations and voting were yet to happen. On Sunday morning the conference is expected to adopt the nominations and voting for the new leadership. “We welcome the courts judgement. Sithole is welcome to participate in the conference, ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said while addressing the media after 11PM. By 6am on Sunday morning, all reports were adopted, the conference is now entering the nominations process, ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said the ANC is the governing party in the province and it could not rise without saying what kind of a state programs they were expected to drive to change the lives of people of Gauteng. “A lot of political parties think that Gauteng is up for grabs so we need to tell them that more work is being done to make sure that we consolidate our democratic “We reassure the people of Gauteng that we are still a party they can still trust going to that future but we do so by admitting to certain mistakes we might have done in the past?”, the mistakes that could have contributed to the decline. We are hoping that coming out of this we will be able to change things on the ground, that is what the ANC is all about. Everyone in the conference is carrying that kind of interest,” Mabe said. Today it is the 67th anniversary of the Freedom Charter. Mabe said it’s always been a program of the ANC to use the last day of conference to receive the freedom charter lecture by the president . “It is not the first time that the ANC fund itself to have extended time to deal with the business of conference. We can’t constraint ourselves when we not done. Remember it’s a 3 day conference that must produce the leadership of four years… in actual fact we should be taking a week like the community of China because they deal with a lot of issues,” said Mabe Mabe said if President Cyril Ramaphosa arrive and is expected to speak while they are not done with the program of conference, they will pause and allow him to address delegates. He said comrades were not hostile to each other but they started the conversation late. “We have committed ourselves that we will do everything in our power that at the conclusion of this conference the entire business of the conference is covered. We are expecting the entirety is business of conference will be done,@ he said. Mabe said they will work hard to make sure that by way of consensus could have credentials affect so that they could proceed with the business of contact Around 7AM the conference entered the item if elections, the made sure that all the people present are duly accredited in order to vote. Both Panyaza Lesufi and Lebohang Maile are vying for the position of chairperson. Delegates sang and showed their support to the two factions.