Siyabonga Sithole KZN ANC member, Nkosentsha Shezi and Strinny Naidoo of Really Democracy have become the latest members of the ruling party to open a case against President Cyril Ramaphosa. Shezi laid a complaint of gender- based violence (GBV) against the Ramaphosa with Shezi accusing Ramaphosa of kidnapping, torture assault and illegal interrogation tactics against the president's domestic worker while Naidoo opened a case of corruption and money-laundering against the president. Nkosentsha Shezi staunch supporter of former President Jacob Zuma is at Durban Central Police Station to open a case against #CyrilRamaphosa on #GBV case that happened at #PhalaPhalaFarm. pic.twitter.com/3zRymfTFLi "Yes can confirm  that I and along other fellow citizens opened a case of GBV against the president. You must remember that the president and his presidential protection unit in June 2020 subjected the domestic worker to torture, assault and illegal methods of interrogation.  In a country such as ours, with high incidents of GBV we felt the need to open such a case. This is the same person who ordered the massacre of 34 mineworkers in Marikana. He has presided over the sucking of the country's billions of energy resources through his interests in mining and on top of that has resulted in the mass destruction of black lives. We say enough is enough because Ramaphosa has also contributed to the corruption of democratic systems within the ANC. He must be held accountable for all he has done," Shezi added. Naidoo called on the American authorities to investigate the matter involving the South African President. A case had been opened for #CyrilRamaphosa at Durban Central SAPS for #GBV happened at #PhalaPhalaFarm . pic.twitter.com/wd9FRsfA5q "The American authorities should look into this matter as it is against their Patriotic Act and money-laundering acts. This is not only an offence in South Africa but to them as well.  How does someone keep foreign currency that is undeclared in their home," Naidoo said. On Saturday ahead of the complaint, Shezi who spoke outside the Durban CR Swart Square Police station on warned minister of police Bheki Cele to arrest the president for contravening the FICA act by not declaring millions of rands in foreign currency kept by the president at his Phala Phala Farm in February 2020. "We are here at Durban CR Swart Square Police station to open a case against President Cyril Ramaphosa. This is after Arthur Fraser said that he had enough evidence that Ramaphosa is a thief who kept undeclared American dollars at his farm which were not declared to SARS. This means that Ramaphosa stole from the citizens of this country as he failed to declare", Shezi said. Shezi who is known to belong to the RET faction of the ANC said that the president's failure to report a crime was also an issue as Ramaphosa did not report the robbery of his farm to the law enforcement agencies and instead chose to keep the matter away from public scrutiny. "The law in section 39 of the constitution  says that if you become aware of a crime being committed, you should report it. The president did not do so. So I am here at the police station to open a case against him.  He must be apprehended as we deserve justice as the citizens of this country. The president himself admitted that the money stolen from his farm was his money which was in dollars.  This means that he was in contravention of the Fica Act which stipulates that a person is allowed to carry a maximum of R25 000 in cash. This means also that he contravened  the foreign exchange laws as the money should have been converted to rands which in turn should have been taxed. He has stolen from us as a result of this," Shezi said.