The Ingoma Foundation has released the list of nominees for the 9th Independent National Gospel Music Awards in a high praise and worship ceremony at the Red Conference Centre, Greenstone in Johannesburg. The event was hosted by popular television personality Bishop Lehlohonolo Ledwaba and graced with performances by David the King, Hlengiwe Masondo, Zodwa Mahlangu, Thabiso Mokhethi and Khulekani. Ingoma is known to give a platform to up-and-coming artists, which includes recognising and celebrating their work. There are 31 categories acknowledging the diversity of gospel music talent in South Africa and uncovering unknown talent. Dan Raseluma, the CEO of the Ingoma Foundation, remarked: “We are dedicated to exposing, promoting and celebrating rising stars through recognition of excellence and awarding their talents.” He added that all those nominated deserved the recognition. “Kudos to all the artists nominated this year. They truly deserve the recognition for the hard work they have put into their music and continuously honing their craft - while no one was watching. We encourage work of a high standard and artists to write and produce new material,” he said. They have also launched an interactive app where artists interact with their fans, keep the gospel fans up-to-date with their performance schedules, and fans can buy and stream music, and many more functions. Raseluma encouraged people to vote for their favourite artists to ensure that they win the categories in which they are nominated. To vote, log on to the Ingoma app or SMS 40439. “We have several activities lined up leading to the main award ceremony. They include hosting seminars aimed at empowering and educating our artists about brand positioning: basic financial management, understanding music contracts and becoming a business, among other things. This year we will also be embarking on a province-to-province tour unearthing talent. Watch the space,” said Raseluma. The main event is set to be held at the Red Conference Centre, Greenstone, Johannesburg, on August 27. The awards ceremony will be hosted by actor and television personality Tshepo Maseko and gospel star Mmatema.