Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has blamed the floods disaster for what she claims is lack of funds to build more classrooms in the country. EFF MP Mathapelo Siwisa asked Motshekga via written questions what the department planned to do about Finetown Secondary School, located south of Joburg. The school, which has over 1 800 learners, was shut down by parents last month. They protested about overcrowding. Finetown secondary has no brick and mortar classrooms. It is wholly made up of 63 prefabricated classrooms put up in 2011. Many schools across Gauteng had prefab structures added due to increased enrolment. Siwisa asked Motshekga for the date by which her department planned to address the matter. But Motshekga would not provide such details. “Finetown Secondary School was only closed for two days,”  she said. “The challenge of overcrowding is common in schools serving informal settlements due to non-stop immigration to such areas which cannot be planned for.” Motshekga added that money needed to build proper infrastructure at Finetown secondary and schools facing similar problems was not available. “The department requires an amount over R5 billion to build over 16 000 additional classes to overcome overcrowding in the sector, Finetown Secondary included. “Such funding is currently unavailable to the sector due to budget constraints as the country focuses on rebuilding flood ravaged areas of KwaZulu-Natal, Eastern Cape and North West,” said Motshekga. MEC Khume Ramulifho, the DA’s Gauteng spokesperson for education, conducted an oversight inspection at Finetown secondary during the protests and reported back that its prefabricated classrooms were not in good condition. “The classrooms are severely overcrowded and not conducive for learning and teaching. It is unacceptable as our learners are being denied the dignity of learning in an adequate environment,” he said. “Despite the government ending the rotational learning system, teachers at this school are continuing with the rotational learning system due to a shortage of classrooms and teachers. “It is the responsibility of the department to eradicate all the ageing infrastructure and ensure that our schools have adequate classrooms, teachers and learning materials and equipment.” Ramulifho said the school also faced a shortage of teachers. “Currently, there are 36 teachers, and the ratio is one teacher to 50 learners, which is unacceptable. “There is also a shortage of teachers for the following subjects: maths, life orientation, English, and technology,” he said. Ramulifho added that his party sent demands to Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi regarding Finetown secondary. “We also demand that MEC Lesufi fix the school’s dilapidated infrastructure and provide the school with all the necessary resources needed for schooling.” @BonganiNkosi87