By: Siyabonga Sithole ANC Greater Johannesburg region newly elected Chairperson, Dada Morero has thanked fellow ANC member and business man, Mike Maile for hosting them at his Idle Winds Lodge and Conference Centre in Centurion where the region hosted its elective conference this weekend. Morero said following the death of the region's treasurer general, Mpho Moreane, the region had not raised enough funds to host their conference at privately owned conference venues usually associated with ANC leadership  conferences in the past. “Choosing this venue had more to do with monetary issues following the passing of our treasurer, Mpho Moreane who was in the process of raising funds for us to have this conference. As a result, we had shortages in terms of funds. Comrade Mike Maile who is the owner of this place gave us a better deal hence we moved our conference here to this venue,” Morero said Going forward, the region's chairperson said he would urge the region to male use of this. Facility for all its meetings and conferences as a token of their appreciation. “I would support that moving forward, we will hold our important meetings and would have to be brought here to show our appreciation for what he has done for us in our darkest hour because as a businessman he did not make a profit for hosting us. He allowed us to actually pay him the cost of this conference. We are really really indebted to him. I will as a chairperson  of this region encourage that all our official meetings be held here,” he said. Maile, who describes himself as a native of Alexandra Township, has worked in the public sector after completing his post graduate diploma in management and business administration. Following  stints and a flourishing career in public service, Maile left public service to form  his own business and has since become a thriving businessman The venue itself is almost 9 hectares and boasts multiple  venues and spectacular gardens and is located 40 minutes from Pretoria and a stone's throw from Fourways. The former regional secretary added that the region showed itself to be one of the most disciplined regions as there were no violent exchanges between delegates  as has been the norm in other regions' conferences of the ANC. “You journalists saw for yourselves that this region has disciplined members. There was no violence and unnecessary exchanges and the overall experience was calm and peaceful,” Morero said. Last night, the regional conference produced a balanced leadership from both slates vying for positions. Morero won by a marginal 10 votes with 153 votes to Eunice Mgcina’s 143 for the region chairperson position. The conference is currently overseeing and running its own commissions on renewal, elections and reclaiming the city of Johannesburg.