Siyabonga Sithole ANC member Carl Niehaus has won his court case against the state. In July last year, he was arrested for flouting Covid-19 regulations after he addressed a gathering outside the Estcourt prison where former President Jacob Zuma was incarcerated. After he was arrested Niehaus said he would challenge the arrest and said he was charged unlawfully. He now says he has his sights on suing the state for the farcical and political plot against him. Niehaus was arrested in front of media while being interviewed and says he feels vindicated that the court has ruled in his favour but adds that this could have been avoided as he was not in breach of Covid-19 regulations. "I was in no breach of any Covid-19 regulations and even if I was, Ronald Lamola had earlier addressed a bigger crowd than mine but was not arrested. My arrest was not anyway related to breach of regulations but had to do with political and factional battles and was sanctioned by a political head who wanted to humiliate me based on political issues," he said. Following his acquittal,  the staunch supporter of the former President Jacob Zuma said he has spoken to Advocate Dali Mpofu who has agreed to help him pursue a case against the state. "I have approached Advocate Mpofu who has indicated his willingness to help me proceed to sue the state for malicious prosecution, Dali Mpofu will represent me. I will never allow myself to cower, or be intimidated. The state wasted my time and money as I had to travel more than five times to Estcourt to attend the proceedings. I have suffered a big injustice and humiliation as a result of these trumped up charges against me," he said. During his previous court appearance, two video clips were played in court as evidence. Last month, the case was adjourned to yesterday after Advocate Nthabiseng Mokoena argued that the State has no evidence to present a strong case against her client with the magistrate ruling in his favour on Monday following numerous court appearances and postponements.