A newly introduced television show that creates a platform for youngsters to showcase their talent in acting, singing, modelling and dancing is set to debut on Youth Day. The new television show “Dream Factory”, which showcases incredible talent across nine provinces in South Africa, is coming to TV screens this month. On her journey across the country to scout new talent,  “Dream Factory” founder Elsubie Verlinden found talent in all ages, shapes and sizes in all four principles of acting, singing, modelling and dancing. The founder, who is the 33 and Me Talent Agency head and producer of the International Arts Talent Showcase (IATS), aimed to not only make sure the talented youngsters receive recognition, but to also offer them opportunities in arts education. “The inspiration behind ‘Dream Factory’ is to manufacture and develop dreams, to nurture and educate talent through the entertainment and fashion industry. Workshops and training is provided by local and international industry professionals. This allows talented individuals to grow and perfect their craft with the ultimate goal of positioning them to work professionally in the industry,” Verlinden said. 33 and Me Talent Agency said that together with IATS, “Dream Factory” will showcase a substantial amount of insight into the arts industry. The founder added that the ultimate purpose of the show is to motivate aspiring artists to pursue their dreams. In the show, talent is identified and developed through the IATS with the aim of performing on a world stage at the International Modeling and Talent Association (IMTA), the largest talent convention in New York City. “Viewers can enjoy the talent development workshops coupled with the IATS talent search and embrace the quality of the natural talent our country has to offer,” Verlinden said. The show is also expected to feature international singer-songwriter, producer and casting director Nate Butler. The Atlanta, US, artist visited South Africa earlier this year to present a number of entertainment-related educational workshops to the youth and formed part of the local judging panel in three provinces. The talent agency said that the show will be a starting point for South Africa’s aspiring artists as it showcases their stories as hopeless dreamers who become victorious go-getters. The agency added that Verlinden was also once one of these dreamers as she moved to Johannesburg in her youth to build her career in the arts, but she found a lack of mentors and education opportunities in the industry to help catapult her career. Verlinden is now equipped with 25 years of industry experience and knowledge, and wants to share that knowledge. She said she felt that it is her calling to give youngsters the opportunities she never had and her main focus now is on developing new talent. The show will debut on Youth Day, June 16, on DStv Channel 251 and Starsat Channel 488. @Chulu_M