Siyabonga Sithole MMC for environment and infrastructure services development, Michael Sun has urged the community of Eldorado Park to help the city deal with cable theft and other challenges threatening stable supply of power in the area. This comes after multiple incidents of cable that and vandalism of infrastructure around Eldorado Park and surrounding areas. In April this year, on Good Friday,  the Eldorado Park Power station burst into flames following cable theft with the second transformer also exploding after technicians tried to bring it back into the grid a few days after the explosion. Sun says things have since become better as teams have in the past few weeks been working hard to restore power supply adding that thieves have had a field day vandalising and stealing cables as well as other components. This has led to ripped cables running on the ground. Sun says repairs to ripped cables have been restored with joints  as a temporary measure while City Power tries to find a lasting solution to the issue. “ It is a simple fact that this infrastructure is not designed for run high voltage power through cables with so many temporary joints in place. The supply of uninterrupted power to the community of Eldorado Park is becoming nearly impossible with the rate of cable theft in the area. The city of Johannesburg cannot replace cable and infrastructure faster than it is being stolen. I am pleading with all residents to work with City Power, JMPD, the SAPS and local councillors to arrest this untenable situation,” the MMC said. Following multiple incidents of cable theft and short term interventions to restore power, Sun says the city is now working towards replacing over 28 km of cable now needs  to be replaced in the short to medium term to sustainably resolve the power supply situation in the area adding that City Power, has in the process, devised a plan  that will see all faults currently being experienced resolved within the shortest time period. “ Short term solutions to faulty circuits and components affecting the Eldorado Park and Nancefield substations have already commenced and is planned to be completed by 19th June, 2022. However, while multi-kilometre cable replacement feeding power to Lotus, Hopefield and Soweto Stations  are already under way and are set to be completed by end of July.  City Power gas gone all out to ensure that problems are fixed soonest whilst fully complying with the process and legal requirements ,” Sun added.