As South Africa  celebrates all the incredible fathers in light of Father’s Day, Miss SA's top 10 finalists also shared special messages with them. Anarzade Omar - Crown Gardens, Johannesburg, Gauteng “ Your hard work, determination and the sacrifices you make to care for your family never go unnoticed. I hope you remember how exemplary your actions are and that you continue to be an example to the younger generation.” Ayanda Thabethe - Taylor's Halt, Maritzburg, KZN “Being a dad is difficult, it is a full-time responsibility that requires plenty of patience. But we know that you are doing your best. Thank you for the hugs and kisses, stories and love. For being our (your children’s) friend, protector, advisor and/or co-conspirator.’’ Itumeleng Parage - Central Western Jabavu, Soweto , Gauteng “Your presence and contribution to your children’s lives is very important. It is very much appreciated and of great value. We are so much better with your love.” Keaoleboga Nkashe - Itsoseng ,Ngaka Modiri Molema district, North West “My message to the dads of South Africa would be to be the dad that you always wanted in your life. I want fathers to know that it’s okay to cry, to not always be strong, to be vulnerable and to be true to themselves. You play a very important role in the lives of your children.” Lebogang Mahlangu - Soshanguve, Tshwane, Gauteng Happy Father’s Day. Thank you to all the fathers who have embraced the role of being the first love of a woman’s life and played an active role in our lives. Your impact can never be replaced. We love and cherish you.  Luve Meyer - Brackenfell, Cape Town, Western Province “Fathers play such an important role in the lives of our young generation. Dads help shape our future leaders. Thank you to all the fathers for leading us, protecting us and supporting us. You are valued and loved.” Luyanda Zuma - Bisley, Maritzburg, KZN “My message to all fathers out there is that their presence is needed and felt. Continue to be available for your children and to be their shield and their hero. Having an emotionally unavailable father is probably one of the hardest things any child would go through.” Ndavi Nokeri - Premier Park, Tzaneen, Limpopo “Today we celebrate our leaders, our heroes and our protectors. Living in a country where women and children are constantly living in fear, it is so important for us to celebrate the fathers in our lives that show up for us and lead with love.”