As the world marked World Day Against Child Labour yesterday, the Southern Africa Resource Watch (SARW) added its voice on calls towards ending all forms of child labour. World Day Against Child Labour, celebrated annually on June 12, aims to raise awareness and activism to prevent child labour in the world and this year’s theme “Universal Social Protection to End Child Labour”, calls for social protection systems and schemes that ensure the protection of children from child labour. SARW, the independent body that advocates and promotes human rights and environmental protection in resource extraction activities, said it was concerned by the fact that sub-Sahara Africa has more children in child labour than anywhere else in the world and denounced all forms of child labour.  “Although the agriculture and mining sector remain key for economic growth for Africa, the high rates of child labour in these sectors require urgent attention. It is estimated that over a million children work in mines and quarries​, with child labour most practised in artisanal and small-scale mines,” SARW said. The body added that there was a need to intensify action to end child labour by 2025, in line with Target 8.7 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. SARW said the Covid-19 pandemic eroded some of the progress that has been achieved in reducing child labour as children, who were out of school to contain the spread of the virus, and went to work to help support their families. According to a 2021 report by International Labour Organisation and the Unicef, 160 million girls and boys remain in child labour and that child labour increased by 8.9 million, among children aged 5-11 during the 2016-2020 period. “The child labour scourge is prevalent in mining host communities such as the Democratic Republic of Congo, a country that has the world’s largest reserves of cobalt, a rare mineral critical in the manufacturing of batteries for commonly used electronic devices. The high demand for this mineral has seen more families encouraging children to work in the mines to supplement family incomes or support their relatives. It is estimated that 20% of the mines in the DRC are artisanal and small-scale mines and most of them use the services of children,” the body said. It added that growing economic insecurity and lack of access to education have been linked to child labour in the mines in countries like Zambia and Zimbabwe. According to SARW, In Zambia children working in artisanal mines are exposed to lead and in Zimbabwe, child rights activists have called out Chinese mining companies that are alleged for exploiting minors by employing them in the mines. @Chulu_M