Despite the repeal of Covid-19 regulations including the wearing of masks, the health department has cautioned citizens that the pandemic  is not yet gone, South Africa is just stronger than before. “Today is a very historic day as we have reached a turning point since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the world and in the country,” Health Minister Dr Joe Phaahla said yesterday as he briefed the country on the repeal Covid-19 regulations. Phaahla, repealed three regulations on Wednesday evening, including the wearing of masks when in public, as well as a regulation on the numbers permitted at a gathering and rules around vaccinations for people entering South Africa. The minister, on the behalf of the government, thanked South Africans for their support and cooperation over the last two years and three months of the Covid-19 pandemic. The minister said the government did not realise it’s goal of vaccinating at least 70% of the adult population but as of June 22, a total average of 50,48% South Africans 12 years and above had at least one dose of the vaccine. “We applaud the big turnout of the 60+ age group who are at risk with a 70,5% turnout and the next high risk of 50-59 years with a 66,17% turnout. We believe that the big turnout of the 50+ age group contributed hugely to the reduced severity of hospitalisation and mortality witnessed in the fourth wave and persists up to today,” Phaahla said. The department further revealed that the Free State is the only province which reached 60% of coverage of their adult population at 60,15%, followed by Western Cape at 57,37%, Limpopo at 57%, Eastern Cape at 54,53% and Northern Cape at 51.45%. Gauteng has the highest absolute numbers with 5,4 million individuals vaccinated due to a huge population size but low in percentage at 47,8%. Together with KwaZulu-Natal, North West and Mpumalanga, they have all reached a coverage of below 50%. The minister said one of reasons why regulations were repealed was because by mid-June, the situation in South Africa had taken a very positive direction with a decline in daily cases, decline in hospitalisation, decline in positivity rate, decline in reproductive number and decline in reported deaths. Phaahla said that having monitored the positive direction for more than three weeks and the end of the limited fifth wave, the department approached the National Coronavirus Command Council (NCCC) and the National Health Council with a proposal that the limited regulations. “We just need to end with caution that the Covid-19 virus is not yet gone, it is still in our midst, we are just stronger than before, especially with vaccination and we urge those not yet vaccinated to come forward and those due for boosters to also come forward,” the minister said. Meanwhile, the Department of Basic Education (DBE) announced that following the repeal, the wearing of masks in school is optional for learners and teachers. “In line with this decision to repeal the regulations, the wearing of face masks by learners in classrooms and indoor gatherings is no longer a requirement. Those learners and staff who wish to continue to wear a mask in schools will be allowed to exercise this option,” DBE Minister Angie Motshekga said.