Siyabonga Sithole Last month, the National Institute of Communicable Diseases, (NICD) reported that over the last two weeks of May 2022, four laboratory-confirmed cases of measles were reported in Gauteng. The institute said three of the cases are known to have been epidemiologically confirmed  and are linked to residents of  the South Western Tshwane region,  while the fourth case was linked to a resident of the West Rand. Now the Democratic Alliance (DA)  says it is concerned  that the outbreak might affect 20% of children in the province if the provincial health department does not act swiftly. This past week, in its drive to encourage the uptake of mass vaccinations, the provincial health department  urged care- givers and mothers to ensure that children are up to date with their vaccinations and adhere to the EPI schedule to vaccinate children at six months old and 12 months old intervals. This is according to the decrease in numbers of vaccinations across the province, which according to the DA is a big concern. "The Democratic Alliance is concerned that the four detected measles cases in Gauteng could lead to a wider outbreak amongst approximately 20% of young children who are not vaccinated," shadow minister of health, Jack Bloon said over the weekend. Bloom added that the measles vaccine is supposed to be given to all children in doses given at six and nine months. "But figures from the Gauteng Health Department show that measles second dose vaccination rates have dropped in the last few years to about 80%. It used to be close to 100% but declined even before the disruption caused by the Covid-19 epidemic," the party said. Measles is highly contagious and could lead to serious complications and even death in young children who are immuno compromised and malnourished. "According to the World Health Organisation, two or more cases in a single district are regarded as an outbreak. The reported cases so far are three in Tshwane, and one case in the West Rand," Bloom sounded the alarm. In the meantime, the DA  says it urges all parents to keep up to date with all child vaccines which are available free of charge at public clinics adding that the Gauteng Health Department should  to take special measures to reverse the slippage in vaccine coverage for children which in turn threatens a complete outbreak.