The popular media platform, YouTube, has announced that applications for its Black Voices Fund, Class of 2023, are now open. The fund was initiated in 2020 to recognise and equip black creators, artists and songwriters with the resources and support they need to thrive on the platform. To assist in the development of their channels, all the  creators selected for the programme are set to receive funding. The programme has welcomed over 300 grantees from Australia, Brazil, Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa and the US and includes musicians, beauty entrepreneurs, comedians, activists, poets, personal trainers, parents, photographers, gamers and more. Alumni from the continent include reality star entertainer Lasizwe Dambuza,  personal trainer and health and wellness advocate Mitchelle Adagala, musician Sho Madjozi and TV presenter, entrepreneur and actress Tomike Adeoye. Apart from having committed $100 million for the YouTube Black Voices Fund, YouTube has also partnered with community-based groups to build the Future Insiders programme, specifically targeting over 180 at-risk and underprivileged students who are interested in a future in the music and creative professions. YouTube Lead for Southern Africa, Zeph Masote, said they had always advocated for diverse voice, “The African creator community is filled with so many talented, brilliant, passionate and driven creatives and we’re honoured to equip these talented creators and artists with additional resources to match their drive. At YouTube, we have always tried to facilitate the rise of diverse voices, all inclusive of gender and race. Through the Black Voices Fund, in the past two years we have been able to amplify the perspectives and experiences of these diverse creators,” She further added that they were thrilled to discover all the stunning talent in Africa. “Africa is overflowing with incredible talent. We are excited to discover the amazing creators the next round of applications will bring with it as we continue to invest in the amplification of black creators,” said Masote.