What better way to bring a fun experience than to include a dash of kasi vibes to the mix? This weekend the Night Embassy with Jagermeister will present Kaofela Kaofela an event by Kombonation the Ambassadors of The Night Embassy. Kombonation is a Soweto-based pre-to-post-production start-up specialising in real and raw visual storytelling. This weekend the creatives are set to bring a party dubbed “Kaofela Kaofela” to Soweto from today to Sunday at Uncle Tom’s Community Centre, Kumalo Street.  This nightlife experience boasts other renowned artists such as Focalistic, Bonj, Deniece Marz, Mam Thug, Teedo Love and Kombonation themselves, as well as Skate Contests, their latest T-shirt drop and photography exhibitions at the iconic Uncle Tom’s in Orlando West. We catch up with one of the founders of Kombonation, Kgotso Selomah, fondly known as Slim Rose, who shares details about what Kombonation is all about. “We are representing the hood from the visual aspects of things. We also do clothing where we incorporate this art into the clothing that we produce. It is a measure of cultural things in terms of street culture and art.” Slim Rose added: "Through street kulture, the photography exhibition, merchandise on sale and music being played, kasi people's minds will be opened to a fresh way of partying, one that is not just about a good time, but a great life experience to remember for keeps."  Her partner, Kananelo Kabelo Sello (Freshthings), continued: "Throughout the weekend and the venue, a photo exhibition showcasing the beauty of the people and the places in Soweto will be up for everyone to marvel at.  “The last two nights start a bit earlier to celebrate one of street kultures primary kommunities, the skate community, by way of the Kaofela Kaofela Skate Kontest curated by Perfect Weather Skate Foundation, with the dopest branded decks and other exciting prizes to be won.  “Of course, what's a party with no musik? A living legend from a township of the kapital city of Souda, Pitori, and self-proclaimed Presidente Ya Straata, Focalistic, will be Kaofela with us on our first night!" Tickets for this event are free on www.night-embassy.com/jhb/