Learner from Madibatlou Middle school in Tembisa were filled with gratitude after being bestowed with pairs of shoes revealing that their self-confidence has been ignited. The handover of school shoes displayed how a simple item can be much more meaningful to someone who is less privileged. Shoes are identified as one of the things that play a huge role in how children perceive themselves in a social space. The lack of proper school wear itself has in many cases resulted in children opting to drop out of school. Founder of Kasi Angels Foundation, Gerald Nomlala said spending three years of his school life without shoes made the situation relatable to him. “I spent three years of my youth life without school shoes. I can relate to a kid now who does not have school shoes. Kids who have excuses for not going to school just because they do not have school shoes.” He said his background helped him understand what it means to be without school shoes and the importance of assisting those who need them. Nomlala and his partners have given away 40 000 pairs of school shoes and he is endeavouring for 1 million by 2025. Asked about how they make a selection of schools to donate to he said they do their own research. “We do not select schools I do not encourage schools to write to us and ask for shoes. We do our own research based on the newspapers that we read and the news that we watch on tv.”  He added that their aim was also to donate 40 classrooms in the next 36 months to schools in need. Speaking to one of the learners from the school, Rorisang Phalane, 14, she expressed gratitude for the shoes. “We are proud of having a company like Kasi Angels that sponsors us with shoes because we as learners are from different backgrounds.” The Grade 9 pupil pointed up that having new shoes meant they will feel equal with other learners. A teacher from the school, Mike Lamola said, “What Kasi Angels has done together with other partners and Nedbank is something immeasurable by any terms. We really appreciate it because it will make a huge difference. This makes it easier for learners to realise that they belong. They have a society that really cares about them.“ Lamola  said