As South Africans are still fired up with the Youth Month, one of the biggest commercial youth radio stations, Y-FM will be hosting a celebration of all things lifestyle, music, fashion and entertainment on 25 June at Altitude Beach in Fourways, Joburg. This event will have some of Mzansi’s A-listers taking centre stage in giving those who will be present a memorable and thrilling experience. The thrilling line-up of the much-loved artists will include Blxckie, Samthing Soweto, Blaq Diamond, Pabi Cooper, K.O, and Felo Le Tee. Y’s leading player who is popular for her street cred Ayanda MVP, DJ Venom, and Candii is also on the line-up.  Managing director of the popular radio station Haseena Cassim said they were elated to have this event and spend time with their listeners. “After our brand refresh last year, we are looking forward to spending time with our listeners and enjoying everything that speaks to the culture of Y. Lifestyle, fashion and entertainment brought together in an awesome venue is a wonderful way of celebrating who we are.  “The LYFE lineup includes talented South African artists and also showcases our own YTKO DJs. Ultimately we are curating an experience for our audience, which we will keep enhancing for future LYFE events.” she shared In April, The Star reported on the return of Ayanda MVP who will also be part of the hot list of talents set to grace the event. She shared how elated she was to be given a platform to showcase her affinity for music and radio. “I’m beyond excited to be back at Y. I’m a music-driven broadcaster; most of my content is about artists and their tracks that are fire. This new show gives me the platform to continue being purposeful and intentional with my love for music both on radio and the decks.  “I’ve been working towards an opportunity like this. And the time has finally arrived for me to host drive on YFM. It’s time to hear what AyandaMVP is really made of. Molifeng.” With early bird LYFE tickets already sold out, the carefully curated line-up was particularly selected to light up the mood and bring a much-needed vibe that will be memorable for young people.