The ANC Interim Provincial Committee (IPC) in the North West has vowed to hold a peaceful provincial conference next week. The party confirmed to “The Star” that the conference is scheduled for June 23 to 25 . ANC IPC co-ordinator Hlomani Chauke said they are doing their best for the conference to take place without any disruptions. “The conference will go ahead, we are currently resolving all outstanding disputes. We hope to have a peaceful conference,” Chauke said. Although Chauke is confident that the province is ready for the conference, a source said by Sunday night many branches were still queuing for their disputes to be resolved. “All branches that went to BBGMs (bi-annual branch general meetings) this past weekend in Dr Kenneth Kaunda region appeared before dispute committee, and it is alleged that none of those branches nominated any of members of the committee and the disputes are manufactured in order to delay conference to sit before that national general council of the ANC that is scheduled for the month of July,” said a source. This conference will take place after more than three years with the IPC at the helm and has consistently tried to go to conference since December 2019, it has to convince its membership that it has done everything in its power to host the conference. Among reasons why the province has been postponing the conference since March is its failure to complete branch biannual general meetings. The meetings have been marred by a number of allegations, including rigging of branches, sabotage by those in power, and supporting a particular faction that sometimes leads to the scanner being disabled. A voice message circulating from one of the branches, Mafikeng ward 32, depicts a situation in which a branch was forced to nominate individuals they did not wish to nominate. A source from the branch who participated at the branch meeting claimed they were not able to continue to nominate their preferred provincial individuals. One of the members who happens to be in the regional leadership is heard in the voice note (in our possession), instructing branch chairperson to nominate Nono Maloyi as chairperson and Sipho Dial as provincial secretary. An argument erupts in which another member argues that they don’t like working with Dial. The source said within the region, some branches have been complaining about regional leadership, including its co-ordinator who has been pro-Maloyi faction, and they want to win conference by all means even if they have to steal the branches. “Where they can’t get nominations they have developed a system of disputing all branches, and this has resulted in delays to hold the conference,” said the source. According to the source, those who are in the lead for the position of provincial chairperson include current North West Premier Bushy Maape; Motlalepula Rosho, who is the current MEC for finance in the province; Maloyi and Chauke. The source also said Mpho Khunou is eyeing the position of provincial secretary, with a support base in Rustenburg and Dr Kenneth Kaunda Region. Some branches of the ANC in Dr Kenneth Kaunda region who claimed to be the majority are of the view that regional conference must sit in order to be able to have a structure that will take branches to the provincial conference. A source said the Bojanala branches, which comprised of Maloyi and Rosho’s camp, sat in a private meeting that concluded that they should go to regional conferences first as they have no confidence in the current IPC to take them to conferences, as they have failed to do so in the past three years. The source further alleged that a number of branches are complaining that the IPC-appointed Dispute Committee is biased, as its composition is of most members who have interests in contesting the provincial conference. “The committee is chaired by Sello Lehari, who is in Maloyi’s slate as their provincial treasurer; Kenetswe Mosenogi, who is also vying for position of chairperson; and Lina Miga, who is entertaining the thoughts of being deputy provincial chairperson; and as such, they have targeted branches that are not in support of them and make sure that they award against them.” The source further said: “A complainant from ward 38 in Matlosana is aggrieved that her branch was ‘stolen’ and necessary processes were not followed. She further complained that more than 10% of those scanned were scanned manually in opposition of required BBGM guidelines. The branch dispute was dismissed and according to her, the illegitimate branch executive committee was allowed to continue business as usual.” ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za