A Grade 9 learner takes her HIV advocacy to Washington DC as she is one of three South African girls selected to represent the Global Fund campaign locally. Curro Aurora Sundowner, Randburg Grade 9 learner Galaletsang Phalatse will take part in various activities from this month (June) to August in an advocacy campaign for the Global Fund’s campaign in South Africa. The school said the learner, with the two other girls selected to represent adolescent girls and young women, will help make global leaders aware of the plight of girls and young women in the African continent. The 14-year-old will also attend a high-level meeting in Washington DC, hosted by the South African Ambassador to the US, Nomaindiya Mfeketo, . Curro Aurora said Phalatse has been devoted to HIV prevention for as long as she can remember, as a passionate campaigner for female empowerment. The school added that raising awareness about the importance of comprehensive sexual education and better access to HIV prevention methods was central to her efforts as an activist. “It is a huge honour and very humbling to be only one of three girls chosen to represent South Africa in this fantastic campaign. The Global Fund has done some fantastic work to help save lives by helping to provide HIV treatment. However, it is so important for young girls around the world to be equipped with the right knowledge to prevent HIV from spreading, and ensure we stay HIV negative,” the learner said. She added that she was excited to see that the youth was taking part in changing the world and gets to be part of the impact. The learner caught the attention of her mentor Sibulele Sibaca after making a compelling HIV-prevention video  for people in her local community. Curro Aurora said Sibaca iencouraged the learner to get involved with the campaign and with the help of the non-governmental organisation, Impact Drivers, Phalaste created a pitch at the start of this year (2022) and hasn’t looked back.  In March, she was invited to be a panellist at an International Women’s Day event in Sandton. “A huge congratulations to Galaletsang on her brilliant achievement. Galaletsang is exceptionally passionate about female empowerment, having previously spearheaded a Pad Drive in school, to prevent less fortunate girls from missing school because of their periods.  “She is an inspiration to her peers, and we wish her only the best in America. We just know she will make the most of every opportunity thrown her way and come back with plenty of stories to share,” said JC Engelbrecht, executive head at Curro Aurora. The Global Fund campaign runs from March to October every three years advocating for the end of HIV,/Aids, TB and malaria as epidemics. The fund raises and invests billions of dollars every three years in more than 100 countries and this year’s pledging conference will be hosted by President Joe Biden in New York. @Chulu_M