Siyabonga Sithole Under fire, Member of the Mayoral Committee(MMC) for Economic Development and councillor, Nkukuleko Mbundu has once again written to the speaker of the Johannesburg council, councillor, Vasco Da Gama in order to make his formal submission on recent allegations against him. On Wednesday, Mbundu made a 32-page submission to the speaker following calls from opposition parties including the ANC for his immediate suspension for his alleged interference  in procurement and tender processes. The submission comes hot on the heels of a recent letter the MMC had sent to the speaker urging the speaker to begin an investigation against him. On Wednesday, following growing calls from opposition parties Mbundu submitted a 32-page report in which he informs the speaker on the facts relating to the Walter Sisulu Square of dedication and his role and legislative authority for effective oversight over resources of the city. This, he said, was out of respect for the current investigation by the speaker. In a statement issued by his team, the MMC said he stands by his belief that he is innocent adding that since being a councillor in  the economic development cluster, he has maintained high standards of transparency and accountability. “MMC Mbundu reaffirms his commitment to the highest standards of transparency and accountability  and is hopeful that the matter will  be thoroughly investigated,  and an outcome reached without delay. We will not waiver  in our commitment  to rid the city of corruption, maladministration  and wasteful expenditure,” the statement reads. The source of Mbundu’s problems began  in February after, leader of Al Jama-Ah Kabelo Gwamanda wrote a letter of complaint against Mbundu to the Mayor of Johannesburg, Mpho Phalatse asking her to suspend the MMC following allegations  that Mbundu had accepted a bribe  from an unidentified briber and later returned half of the bribery loot when he had realised his mistake. In the letter to the mayor, Gwamanda asked the mayor to explain why she had not acted against the MMC following these allegations of corruption and accepting a bribe and involving himself in tender and procurement processes. This week, the ANC Greater Johannesburg region announced that it had opened a case of “improper interference” against Mbundu following these allegations. In a recent statement, ActionSA which delayed Mbundu into the council said it had noted the allegations against the MMC and had made a thorough assessment  of all the allegations made against their representative. “A thorough assessment on all the allegations  has been made. This process  included obtaining information  and  responses  from Mbundu, which have provided sufficient basis for ActionSA to conclude that MMC Mbundu has acted both within the bounds of the law and in the best interests of the residents of Johannesburg,” the party said.