Resort .hotel chain Sun International is sponsoring advanced science lessons for Brakpan learners with R700 000.  The Sci-con Saturday school programme, designed for select Grade 10 to 12 learners, is receiving a R700 000 boost from Sun International and its Carnival City unit for the pupils to enjoy weekend advanced science lessons. The hotel chain said of the R700 000, about R400 000 came from the group, with the balance being injected by Carnival City. The Sci-con Saturday school programme, based in Brakpan, Ekurhuleni, and not far from Carnival City also in Brakpan, focuses on disadvantaged learners who usually battle to get to school and provides tuition in computer applied technology, maths, English, physical science, life science and accounting. According to Sun International, the programme is set to run for two years, between 2022 and 2024. “These are all key subjects for those seeking to enter the workforce over the next few years,” said Heidi Edson, Sun International’s group socio-economic development manager. “Through this programme, we hope to gear up disadvantaged students with information to help them succeed in the crucial Grade 11 and 12 years, as well as beyond.” The group added that the learners were taught from the basics of subjects up through platting graphs and other more skilled aspects of maths. They also learn how to use mathematical instruments. “Beyond these skills, we also provide learners with experiments under supervision in a laboratory, as well as how to carry out scientific research and produce a report,” explained Lucky Nkopane of the Sci-com Foundation, the science and commercial centre that runs the programme. In regards to English, the learners are trained in comprehension skills, reading and communication and in terms of accounting, they learn financial accounting, cost and management accounting, as well as managing resources. “The programme provides support to FET learners, as well as helping teachers introduce new concepts,” said Nkopane. The idea is to improve the output of engineers, chartered accountants and technicians, all areas in which South Africa lags its peers. “Sci-com helps bridge the gap between those schools that have resources, and those that don’t. It will also ensure that more students pass matric with key skills in areas that South Africa desperately needs,” Sun International said. The group added that at least 30 Saturdays need to be set aside for learning, with the programme classes running from 8:15am to 2:40pm and the learners are evaluated by Brakpan High School’s management as well as Department of Education officials. “We are grateful to be able to offer these children a better education, giving them a stronger chance in life,” Edson said. @Chulu_M