Siyabonga Sithole Acting chairperson of the Johannesburg region, Eunice Mgcina who is contesting outgoing general secretary, Dada Morero for the Greater Johannesburg Region chairperson position delivered a passionate political report at the Idle Winds Conference centre amid songs we want woman on top.- Mgcina faces stiff competition from Dada Morero who is seen as the hot favourite for the  coveted chairperson position of the ANC’s Greater Johannesburg region. She said that the 15th  regional conference has the duty to adopt resolutions in order to develop a clear programme of action that will inform the work of leadership. “ As we begin our deliberations, let us be reminded that this conference is the highest decision-making body. As delegates, we are expected to take stock of the political developments in our country and the world to assess the work of the Regional Executive Committee since our last conference,” she said. This conference also has a duty to adopt resolutions, develop a clear programme of action that will inform the work of the leadership, cadreship and membership as we prepare for various conferences that will be taking place this year,” she said. Mgcina said the ANC will be guided by the theme of the conference: “The year of unity and renewal to defend and advance the country’s Democratic gains.” She added that the renewal of movement is of paramount importance if the ruling party is to emerge as a formidable force for social transformation  agenda. “We must do this comrades in honour and memory of many giants of our revolution such as Oliver Tambo, Walter Sisulu, Chris Hani, Lillian Ngoyi and many others who sacrificed their lives for non-racial, non-sexist, United, democratic and prosperous South Africa. Therefore, we have a responsibility to safeguard the ANC's legacy,” said Mgcina. Mgcina said the conference also takes place against the backdrop of the ANC’s poor showing at the polls during the 2021 local government elections. “As a result,  we lost control of the City of Johannesburg.  Without state power at our disposal, our ability to change the lives of our people is drastically curtailed. This conference should provide guidance to the REC on the way forward as the highest decision-making  body in Johannesburg,” she said. She further said that as the ANC looked ahead to the 55th ANC elective Conference in December, it was important to pay attention to issues of Ill-discipline and foreign tendencies  which have characterised some of the regional conferences leading up to December. “In this conference, we begin preparations for the Provincial and National conference,” she said. “As we prepare for these two historic gatherings, we have been observing tendencies that are foreign to our movement. This includes lack of tolerance of different views and a breakdown in organisational discipline. We have also seen in other provinces where people are now shooting each other in meetings, howling and disrupting meetings of our organisation. This is not the ANC our forebears handed over to us,” Mgcina added. Mgcina urged delegates to work towards restoring discipline and uprooting of foreign tendencies while increasing and returning the party back to its core values which place service delivery over positions as informed by the lessons learnt at Nasrec.