A Twar between Deputy President of Patriotic Alliance (PA) and EFF member Sentletse Sentlese has led to Tweeps sharing a video where Kunene is urging people to post about women’s private parts, sex and jokes and refrain from discussing serious opinions. On Sunday 19 June a recording emerged on social media platform Twitter, and the sender of the video has since been blocked by Kunene. It is believed that the user who posted the video going by the name of @DavidMoG noticed the twar between the two and then decided to tag Sentletse to watch the degrading video. In the video Kunene is heard saying: “We don't want to hear anyone’s opinion in this group, post female private parts, post people making love, post  jokes, post something light and take your opinions to another group please, you are ruining our group, This group is for private part, this is a humble request”. At this point it is unknown what group was Kunene referring to but some people have expressed disgust at a person who is a deputy mayor but speaking like this. Going back in the timeline, it seems like the twar started on 18 June where Sentletse questioned PA president, Gayton McKenzie about the factories he has been opening in recent months since taking office as Central Karoo mayor just over 100 days ago. Sentletse wrote: “Gayton needs to tell us who owns all these factories he opens every week. Who are the directors? What are the company names? How much of municipal funds have been used and so on. Accountability before PR please!” The statement did not sit well with Kunene, he went and responded to Sentlestse. Kunene replied by saying: “McKenzie doesn't have to answer swerword (shit) to you, go to your EFF for answers” This then led to a number of Twitter users debating and choosing sides between the two who are at war. The Star contacted Kunene for a comment however he was not available. When McKenzie took over as Central Karoo mayor, he boldly promised that by the time he marks his first 100 days in office there will be no bucket toilet in the district municipality. The PA took over the running of the district, which includes the Beaufort West, Laingsburg and Prince Albert local municipalities, after the party entered into a coalition with the ANC. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za