The DA in Gauteng said it was concerned with the increase in the murder rate and car theft in the province. According to the fourth quarter report of the 2021/2022 Gauteng Crime Statistics, there has been a 45.2 % increase in reported murder cases, a 31.7% increase in attempted murder, 26% in high-jackings and a 11.6 % increase in rape cases which all implies that residents face a dismal future. These percentages refer to a total of 2792 reported cases of either murder or attempted murder for 90 days which equates to 30 people either being murdered or victims of attempted murder in one day. DA MPL Crezane Bosch said  each hour, more than one person is affected, ripped of their dignity and scarred for their life because of the above-mentioned crimes. "These statistics trigger fear for residents as they are scared, wondering if they will be the next victim; they have lost hope in the police services," Bosch said. Bosch said the crime statistics report should not only include the crime stats but should also reflect a detailed analysis of the reasons why these crimes were not prevented, what the shortcomings are at these police stations and the challenges in the communities that face these constant increases in crime. "The DA has interrogated the Community Safety annual report and the list of police stations that were visited as part of the MEC’s oversight visits. These visits merely confirmed that they comply with legislative requirements, and do not drill into the challenges that stations are facing in curbing crime and carrying out their mandate," Bosch said. According to Bosch the DA has done oversight inspections at several police stations over the last few months. "We can confirm that our stations are not well equipped or maintained in terms of basic infrastructure and technological requirements, such as electricity, sanitation, and the internet. Hence, Gauteng is in the top 30 of every crime reported nationally. This impacts negatively on the functionality, performance, visible policing, and crime prevention," Bosch said.