The African Transformation Movement (ATM ) on Tuesday submitted its request, in compliance with the National Assembly’s requirements, for parliamentary action to be initiated against President Cyril Ramaphosa. This comes after the National Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula on Monday rejected a request by the ATM and the United Democratic Movement to institute action against Ramaphosa after allegations of corruption. In the letter addressed to Mapisa-Nqakula, ATM president Vuyo Zungula said In terms of Rule 129A of the National Assembly rules, the ATM is moving a substantiated motion to establish a Section 89 Committee Inquiry following the overwhelming prima-facie evidence against Ramaphosa for Constitutional violations as contemplated in section 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. On June 1 former State Security Agency (SSA) director-general Arthur Fraser laid criminal charges against Ramaphosa at a Rosebank police station, accusing him of stealing $4 million (more than R60 million) and paying people to conceal the matter. “It is common cause that Fraser has submitted evidence at the police station where the President is implicated in serious crimes including bribery, money laundering, kidnapping, breaching of customs and excise laws, breaching of SARS regulations, breaching prevention of organised crime act, defeating the ends of justice, to mention but a few. It is not clear how finality will be reached on these matters because the heads of all the institutions that must investigate these crimes are appointees oft Ramaphosa “ATM will focus only on the areas where transgressions are neither contested nor in dispute. Incidentally these are the areas where Parliament has exclusive jurisdiction. It is the contention of the ATM that the President has violated s83(b) of the Constitution which enjoins him as head of state to uphold, defend and respect the Constitution as the Supreme Law of the Republic,” said Zungula. Zungula said there is prima facie evidence that Ramaphosa has violated s83(b) through violating Section 96(2)(a) of the Constitution which says members of the cabinet and deputy ministers may not ‘undertake any other paid work’. Zungula said in response to widely publicised criminal allegations by Fraser, Ramaphosa whilst addressing Limpopo ANC Conference delegates and media is on record saying “I’m a farmer, I am in the cattle business and the game business... I buy and I sell animals...This that is being reported was a clear business transaction of selling animals...” “In his own words the President has confirmed that he is actively running his farming business and thus contrary to the provisions of the Constitution as cited above the President is doing other paid work. The evidence of this confirmation of violation of the Constitution is in the attached YouTube clip. This also means the President misled the nation when in 2014 on assuming office as Deputy President, he said that all his business interests would be managed by a blind trust. “The fact that this theft was reported to him personally and the fact that it was him personally that reported the matter to the Presidential Protection Unit, albeit unlawfully so, confirms the direct and personal involvement of the president in his private business activities,” Zungula said. Secondly, Zungula said the fact that a member of the Presidential Protection unit was directed to deal with security issues in the private farm was in violation of the Constitution s96(2)(b). Thirdly, he said the president failed to exercise duty placed upon him to report the theft in his farm as enjoined to do so by Chapter 2 of the Prevention and Combating Corrupt Activities Act (PRECCA), 2004 (Act of 2004), section 34(1). It is not in dispute that the President did not report the matter to the police as required by the law. Fourthly, Zungula daid in terms of section 34(2) of PRECCA, provides that any person who fails to report such corrupt activities is guilty of an offence. “The President is undoubtedly guilty of this offence,” he said. Zungula said te ATM brings to the attention Mapisa-Nqakula that the purported reportage to General Wally Rhoode a member of the Presidential Protection Unit  is not in compliance with South African Police Service Amendment Act, 2012 (Act 10 of 2012) which directs that reporting should be made to the police official in the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation in terms of Section 34(1) of PRECCA, 2004 (Act 12 of 2004). “Finally, the reason there is no case number to date is because even the manner in which the purported report was made irregular and unlawful. Evidence of this irregularity is contained in the verified Twitter handle of the Presidency issued at 13:19 on the 2nd June 2022. Please confirm before the last sitting day of this current term, what processes will unfold in processing this submission,” Zungula said. Parliament’s spokesperson Moloto Mothapo was not available for comment by the time of print. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za