Johannesburg - As the country celebrates Father’s Day today, Father A Nation (FAN) have urged that fathers must rise to the task of healing the nation’s deep paternal wounds. The non-profit organisation that encourages positive masculinity and fatherhood in communities, said the country’s paternal wounds are linked to social ills in the country. FAN chief executive Craig Wilkinson said family dynamics demonstrate the importance of balanced homes where children have more than one caregiver and the value of the role a father plays in this relationship. “There is great potential that can be unlocked in the children who will one-day run this country if they are allowed the foundational nurturing of fatherhood,” said Wilkinson. According to the Statistics South Africa (StatsSA) 2019 General Household Survey (GHS) released last year, 41,7% of children in the country live with their mother only, whereas 4% live with only their fathers. About 21,3% of all children did not live with their parents and 32,7% lived with both parents. “Fathers, uncles and grandfathers who have stepped up and made an example of themselves that others can and should follow need to be applauded and encouraged. Slowly, but surely, men are beginning to step up where they are needed in unprecedented ways,” said Wilkinson. “We are seeing more single-fathers, step-fathers and co-parenting fathers showing the many ways we can make fatherhood work in South Africa even in the most difficult circumstances.” The organisation said it believes more fathers are stepping up as evidenced in the courts, where thousands of fathers are fighting for joint custody or are in mediation for access to their children. FAN said businesses also need to play their part in driving education, awareness and support to staff who return home as fathers, brothers and sons in fighting gender-based violence (GBV) and teaching boys and men the values of manhood. “History has proven that the remedy for broken South African families is to hearken back to the natural call to men as protectors and nurturers in the community as well as in the household. Addressing the issues that prevent men from being able to conduct themselves as the natural born leaders, builders and fathers that they are is a mammoth task that begins with approaching men and boys with compassion, not blame. Holding men accountable need not take away from this most fundamental need for people to be treated like their feelings matter too,” the organisation said. The Star