Siyabonga Sithole Things are set to heat up this weekend as the ANC Greater Johannesburg Region hosts its 15th regional conference. This will be the platform where delegates will elect their new leadership after a difficult period which saw prominent leaders tragically die, the latest being former Joburg mayor Mpho Moerane. The conference is themed : Unity and Renewal to Defend and Advance South Africa’s Democratic Gains. Upon arrival at the Idle Winds Lodge and Conference Centre just outside Centurion,where the conference concludes on Sunday, efforts were made to beef up security, manned by the party’s own members. Part of the security measures include the checking of vehicles. “We are checking all vehicles to make sure that no illegal substances come into the venue,” said one security personnel. The party instructed that all accreditation be collected at the Kate Bapela House in Johannesburg and no delegate or media personnel would enter the venue without it. After gaining accreditation, many made the hour-long trip and were met by lodge staff who had set up for the conference. "There will be no fights here. We are not like the other regions of the ANC. We will make sure that the conference takes place under peaceful and disciplined circumstances," said Vusi Ntuli. Ntuli is a member of the ANC peacekeepers part of the security structure set up by the ANC greater JHB regional office The first day of the conference will focus on the input by the Palestine Ambassador Hanan Jarrar focusing on the Palestinian struggle for self-determination. Whilst day two will focus on the adoption of the credentials, an address by the Provincial Chairperson David Makhura, presentations, discussions and adoptions of the Political, Organisational and Finance Reports. The nominations and elections of the Regional Office Bearers will therefore take place followed by the nominations and election of the regional additional members. Outgoing Secretary Dada Morero this week said the conference would convene without issues since all outstanding appeals from branches had been resolved. The second day will be addressed by the former Statistician General Pali Lehohla on society’s perception towards the ANC followed by focus on the following commissions: Strategic Outlook: Base Document, Elections, Organisational Renewal and Reclaiming the City The third day will focus on receiving the results of the elections of the regional additional members and receive reports from commissions, conference declarations and closing remarks by the newly elected Regional Chairperson. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za