Inflation was one of the top issues affecting citizens of countries around the world last month, as revealed in the Ipsos study, What Worries the World for May. The market research company’s monthly What Worries the World survey explores what the public thinks are the most important social and political issues currently across 27 countries. May’s What Worries the World study revealed that worry about inflation had risen for the 10th month in a row and remains the number one concern with a global average of one in three (34%) participants saying inflation was one of the top issues affecting their country. According to the study, all 27 countries surveyed have a higher “worried about inflation” figure in May than they did at the start of the year. South Africa was ranked second to last on the list of countries worrying about inflation. “There are, however, other important issues that South Africans want addressed, and, as it has been for many years, we top the list in terms of saying that ‘unemployment and jobs’ are very important issues. As far as this aspect is concerned, at 66% South Africa is far ahead of the global country average of 27%,” Ipsos said in the study. Completing the top five worries are poverty or social inequality (31%), unemployment (27%), crime and violence (27%), and financial or political corruption (24%). The study also revealed that the global concern over the Covid-19 pandemic continued to decline as the coronavirus stayed at eighth position between taxes and climate change. According to Ipsos, globally the proportion concerned about coronavirus is 16%. May is the third month in a row that placed the pandemic outside the top five concerns since the start of the year. Japan is the only country where Covid is the top concern, compared to 12 countries three months before. The study revealed that across the 27 nations surveyed, two-thirds (64%) said that things in their country were on the wrong track, while 36% thought they were heading in the right direction. Peru and Argentina had the largest proportion of people saying that their country was heading in the wrong direction (91% and 86%, respectively), followed by Poland (80%) and South Africa (79%). Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia (93%) and India (75%) remained the most positive about their country. Furthermore, the study said that across all the countries, more than one-third (35%) on average said that the current economic situation in their country was good, while 65% said it was bad. South Africa was at the bottom half of the table, with more than three-quarters (77%) saying the economy was bad. “No doubt influencing our opinions about the direction of the country as well as feeding the strong and relentless concern about unemployment and job creation,” Ipsos said. @Chulu_M