She joins the rich list of authors who have produced  relatable literature content for children in South Africa. To help encourage literacy and numeracy in a simple and entertaining way, media personality Nzinga Qunta has released “Amari’s Adventures”, an interactive book for children to indulge in and explore its captivating things.   “Amari’s Adventures” mirrors happiness when Amari travels across South Africa and catches a glimpse of beautiful plants, animals, and people along the way. With the eye-grabbing pictures inside the book, it allows little ones to read and learn new words. Sharing more details about the book, the broadcaster said: “I would say that normalises blackness and having fun because we have an incredible amount of children's literature coming out of South Africa which is so stunning and so beautiful and maybe I wanted to add to that body of work.“ She added that with the book, she wanted to normalise an animated experience with books and shy away from depicting struggles. “What I want my child to have and other little kids to have is a joyful and fun experience with books. And just normalising seeing a little black girl going on an adventure. There is nothing deep such as struggles against this and that.  “It is to just normalise black joy and just enjoy reading which I feel kids should be experiencing,” she shared Qunta also spoke about her journey to bring the book to life, revealing that it was challenging but there were many lessons to learn. “I would say it was fun and challenging and I have learnt a lot. And so the idea came quite quickly to me but the execution was quite difficult for a number of reasons.” In her journey to produce “Amari’s Adventures”, she mentioned that she had to deal with translation, and ensure the illustrations came out flawlessly. Her book is for children aged between 0-6 and has been translated into all 11 official South African languages, and has also been translated into Nama, which is spoken by people in the Northern Cape. “Amari’s Adventures” is available for purchase on Ethnikids.