An adventurous mom who was diagnosed with cancer in 2020 has set out to conquer Mount Kilimanjaro to raise money in aid of ostomy and cancer patients. In 2020, while so many people’s lives were shaken by the Covid-19 pandemic, Lerato Monyatsi, from Krugersdorp, was diagnosed with stage 3 colorectal cancer. The diagnosis meant that the 41-year-old founder of non-profit organisation SkirtGirlHiker Foundation would need to receive immediate medical attention and undergo multiple surgeries as well as chemotherapy and radiation. Through this journey, Monyatsi also became a permanent ostomate, a person who had a surgical operation to create an opening in the body for the discharge of bodily waste, after losing her colon to cancer. Monyatsi faced exorbitant medical costs and still to this day she requires costly medical supplies and ongoing treatment. Her health battle made Monyatsi realise the harsh reality that many South Africans lack access to basic medical care and thus she created her organisation. The SkirtGirlHiker Foundation aims to restore dignity to ostomy and cancer patients by conquering mountains and hiking with purpose. “After I confronted this stage3 colorectal cancer mountain and survived it, I felt the urgent need to create awareness about this type of cancer and what being an ostomate means. Being an avid multi-day hiker I felt my ostomy gave me another chance at living life to the fullest while making an impact on the lives of those less fortunate,” Monyatsi said. With a mission to close the care gap and raise funds for the medical attention, supplies and mental wellness of colorectal cancer patients and stoma patients, Monyatsi aims to summit Mount Kilimanjaro, Tanzania, at 5 895m. Monyatsi, who is an avid explorer and adventurer, began her charity climb yesterday (Thurs) and aims to reach her peak, in triumph, in eight days. “I have been so anxious to share the news because this journey feels so surreal and the purpose is bigger than me. Nothing carries more potential for change than individual acts of human kindness,” she said. Monyatsi hopes to raise R20 000 or more for her foundation through a crowdfunding campaign launched on BackaBuddy. Since the launch of the campaign, eight donors have made contributions to the value of R2 400 and as of yesterday afternoon more than R3 600 had been raised. “Join hands with us as we make an impact in the lives of South Africans stoma and cancer patients. You can make a difference now. Now more than ever, your support means everything. Thousands of people like you help us stand up and move mountains to restore the dignity of South Africans, one community, one cancer patient and one ostomate at a time,” Monyatsi said. @Chulu_M