Johannesburg - Non-government organisations, Khulisa Social Solutions and Sizonqoba Gender Equality, have joined forces to improve the services offered in victim support centres to LGBTIQA+ individuals in Gauteng. “South Africa has enjoyed the reputation of a rainbow nation and LGBTIQA+ friendly country for decades; however, a great imbalance still exists between the country’s revered constitution and the daily experiences of the LGBTQIA+ community,” the NGOs said. Managing Director of Khulisa Social Solutions, Lesley Ann van Selm said that through the Gauteng Department of Social Development, the organisation has been managing four victim support centres located at police stations in Sophiatown, Johannesburg Central, Langlaagte, and Moffat View for over five years. “The process is initiated by the referral of a victim from the police station to the victim support centres and thereafter, the victim is screened by a trained Khulisa volunteer to ensure their case is appropriate for handling by the victim support centres. The services provided by Khulisa’s social workers and trained volunteers include peace-mediation sessions, psychosocial services, and assistance with applications for protection orders,” said van Selm. Khulisa Social Solutions said it noted an increase in the need for psychosocial services from the LGBTQIA+ community due to the stigmatisation and abuse the communities continue to endure. The organisation added that this also results in the reluctance to seek support from the relevant avenues, including police stations and victim support centres. “This, to a large extent, is because of the fear that our staff who are not adequately equipped to understand the complexities that this sector of our communities face. This is of concern to Khulisa as we practise a policy of social inclusivity, at every level,” Ciccioline Ntswaki Shika, victim support centre Senior Social Worker at Khulisa added. The organisation said going forward, Khulisa Social Solutions with the victim support centres will participate in conversations with the LGBTQI+ community to get first-hand information about the challenges they face daily; sensitise the police about the appropriate ways to offer support to the LGBTQI+ community; conduct community awareness campaigns that to address challenges like corrective rape, hate crimes, and social exclusion; and provide psychosocial support services including counselling, peacemaking, mediation and referrals to other departments if needs arise. The Star