A legal Aid SA lawyer representing jailed serial killer and ex-policewoman Rosemary Ndlovu is fearing for her life, and her notorious client has nothing to do with it. Fingers have been pointed at one of Ndlovu’s accusers, sergeant Keshi Benneth Mabunda, for lawyer B Makamu’s fears. The Kempton Park Magistrate’s Court heard yesterday that Mabunda, whom Ndlovu allegedly plotted to kill, asked a prosecutor stationed in Thembisa peculiar and personal questions about Makamu. M Malotane, Makamu’s co-defence lawyer in Ndlovu’s case, told magistrate Prince Manyathi that Mabunda asked a prosecutor questions such as where Makamu resided, who she was, where she hung out and who was her husband. “The investigating officer, who is a complainant in this matter, is phoning my colleague who is a prosecutor, asking about my colleague,” said Malotane. “That raises grave concerns for our office. We will duly escalate the complaint to the relevant authorities, the South African Police Service, to have this addressed because the motive for that is not known to the defence and it’s unethical behaviour,” he said. Malotane said a colleague of theirs was killed in Venda, Limpopo, following similarly peculiar conduct. “We raise this in light of what had occurred to our colleague in Venda who was shot and killed while he was getting into his own yard,” he said. Malotane addressed the court about the matter as Ndlovu and her co-accused, Nomsa Mudau, made another brief appearance. Ndlovu’s other co-accused, alleged to be involved in the conspiracy to kill Mabunda and another police officer, remained at large. Mudau stood accused of conspiring with Ndlovu to kill her husband, Justice Mudau, killed for insurance payout. The magistrate asked Malotane for the name of the complainant who asked strange questions about Makamu. He said it was Mabunda. Mabunda and Colonel Nthipe Boloka, the commander of the Thembisa police station, opened conspiracy to commit murder charges against Ndlovu, the former colleague. Ndlovu allegedly wanted them killed because they investigated her for the serial murders of her five relatives and a lover for insurance payouts. Mabunda was the leading investigating officer and received praise from the late Judge Ramarumo Monama, who convicted and sentenced Ndlovu to six life imprisonment terms. Judge Monama said if it were not for Mabunda’s dedication, case files would have gathered dust at the police station. Magistrate Manyathi said the State should get to the bottom of the allegations against Mabunda. “If that is the situation, that’s very much unethical. “We cannot allow such a situation, taking into account, as the defence is saying, that one of their colleagues was shot in Venda. “I need more information on the next occasion … The state must respond as to whether that did happen … and why it was done,” Manyathi said. The matter was postponed to July 7. @BonganiNkosi87