You might have heard the term “cancel culture“ and how pervasive it has been, particularly for well-known personalities. This term has been used for a while now, mainly by those who believe certain behaviours and actions are insupportable. Though that is the case when giving critique to cancel culture, a stream of questions has also been flooding in with many wanting to know how the cancel culture works in South Africa. … With the myriad scandalous revelations surrounding some celebrities, who gets to be cancelled, and why? And one might also want to know for how long, given that some people come back and thrive after being cancelled. There has been a long list of episodes that include Mzansi favourites who have been cancelled, as well as strong calls for others to be cancelled. Popular singer Kelly Khumalo has recently been among those many claimed should be cancelled across all social platforms. As the Senzo Meyiwa murder trial continues to unfold, others have also given her names claiming she should not be booked anywhere. With that not succeeding as Khumalo continues to thrive in her career endeavours, it left many to ask who gets cancelled. Popular singer Sjava was cancelled after Lady Zama lodged rape allegations against him. The media personality Somizi Mhlongo was among those who had the ominous threat of cancel culture hovering over him, after his estranged husband Mohale Motaung revealed abuse claims about their marriage. Last year, media personality Jub Jub was halted from doing any shows after being embroiled in multiple scandals with many, including rape allegations by actress Amanda Du Pont and Masechaba Khumalo. He visited the controversial MacG podcast and before he knew it, he was without a job. Though he will be back to hosting Uyajola 9/9, the television host was cancelled for several months. Taking to Twitter, he shared how elated he was to be back on the screens. “Back by popular demand. Beng’geke ngin’yeke nje (I could not just leave you),” he wrote on Twitter. There have also been calls to cancel the MacG podcast after several people identified it as problematic, and for being constantly involved in scandalous situations. With the cancel culture often acknowledged for its validity, many still question who gets to be cancelled and how does it work because others get cancelled while the rest continues with their lives, despite their “unacceptable conduct”.