AS A way to celebrate the resilience of her parents and the stories of freedom, author Dr Nokuthula Mazibuko Msimang penned Soweto Tea Party, a historical picture book for children which mirrors apartheid days. The book was launched on June 16 in Soweto where she was born and bred. Not only does the book embody the strength of her parents, it is also a love letter to Soweto, a place that made her who she is today. Mazibuko highlights the fact  that her parents were resolute in ensuring that they stayed strong and hopeful as children despite their circumstances brought on by apartheid. This was done through sharing stories of freedom to shut off the outside noise and generate a positive spirit. The book also reveals experiences about a time when her father Fanyana Mazibuko, who was a freedom fighter, was placed under house arrest by the apartheid state during the 1970s and 1980s. We delve into a conversation with Mazibuko about her book and the essence behind it. “It is a celebration of my parents’ resilience but also the stories of freedom and the music of freedom that kept us going and kept us courageous.’’ “It is a flip on your ordinary story of struggle. It is a very joyful book. I am advocating for the power of joy in survival. It is very important for me to commemorate 16 June because children's lives were lost. And my people’s lives were lost. So we have to remember that freedom was not free,” said Mazibuko Looking at how things are today, compared to the past days, she added that she believed freedom is worth celebrating.  She looks at her children now and how they are free to attend any school and all the opportunities they are open to.  Asked which part of the book she would recommend that children read to understand, she pointed out a Miriam Makeba’s song Malaika. “I love you my Angel and you will enjoy freedom. This is the reason I am fighting for freedom.That is the message I got from my parents,” she said, Mazibuko’s books for young readers celebrate positive cultural and social values and encourage self-love, confidence, courage and resilience. Soweto Tea Party adds to the long rich list of books that she has written.