Civil Society organisation, Democracy In Action (DIA) have written to NPA head Advocate Shamila Batohi and National Commissioner of the South African Police Service, (SAPS) General Fannie Masemola urging them to  investigate the serious and disturbing allegations levelled by Arthur Fraser on President Cyril Ramaphosa  These alleged crimes took place at his Phala Phala farm in Bela Bela, Limpopo. “Mr Arthur Fraser has laid criminal complaints against Mr Cyril Ramaphosa (Accused no 1) and General Wally Rhoode (Accused no2), accusing them of money laundering, failure to report a crime and corruption amongst other complaints,” read the letter. DIA said that Ramaphosa has already admitted through a media statement from his office and in person, that indeed a burglary took place at his private residence. “Substantial amount of money was stolen and the matter was concealed and never reported to the South African Police Service,” added the letter. The organisation says that with all the evidence and a confession of the robbery from Ramaphosa, they implored Batohi and Masemola to immediately charge, investigate further and prosecute both the accused ‘criminals’. “Failure to heed to our call, will leave us no option but to use other available avenues as provided for in law, to make sure that both suspected criminals are prosecuted,” said the letter. While both leaders of the African Transformation Movement (ATM) Vuyo Zungula and United Democratic Front (UDM) Bantu Holomisa have written to Speaker of the National Assembly, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula. The two parties are suggesting that the matter be taken to Parliament to iron out the astonishing allegations. Holomisa said that with both versions of the story disclosed, investigations will need to be performed in a relevant, competent, and unbiased manner. “We have heard some of Mr. Fraser and President Ramaphosa’s versions of events, as reported in the media, however, both the allegations and the President’s answers must be properly tested,” said Holomisa. He further highlights the allegations have impaired on how the country discerns something that has a lasting impact on investors. “These allegations have been greatly destructive of the country’s image, both at home and abroad and is likely to affect investor confidence negatively; especially given that President Ramaphosa has acted as the champion of good governance and now this bomb has burst over his very own head,” added Holomisa. In light of these events, Holomisa suggests that Ramaphosa takes leave until mid-August 2022. “Given the existing dynamics with the alleged involvement of the police and the State Security Agency, but in main that Parliament has a responsibility to make oversight of the executive, the UDM would suggest that President Ramaphosa take sabbatical leave, until mid-August 2022.” Last week Wednesday Fraser lodged a criminal charge against Ramaphosa at the Rosebank police station. Zungula says that Ramaphosa should go to an Inquiry set up by the National Assembly. “This inquiry would establish whether or not the alleged serious violation of the Constitution or the law and the alleged serious misconduct by the president are substantiated. After conducting the inquiry, the National Assembly would be in a position to either confirm or dismiss the view held by the ATM that the prima facie evidence presented by Mr Arthur Fraser warrants a motion to remove the President in terms of section 89 of the constitution. The ATM is calling on the Honourable Speaker to establish a section 89 Committee as a matter of urgency,” said Zungula. The letter by Zungula to Mapisa-Nqakula gave her 7 days from the time she receives it to apply her mind to the matter and respond accordingly. Zungula says that if the response is delayed or not favourable to the ATM without proffering and convincing evidence to disprove the allegations, his party will explore all other lawful remedies available to them.