One thing that has been offered by social media platforms is the ability to have people voice out their uncertainties freely and unapologetically. The same energy has been invested in the popular actress Charlize Theron and singer Madonna on how they have been dressing up their adopted children which seemed peculiar. As photographs have emerged of the children wearing skirts and long dresses a lot of people have also wondered what is happening. Social media platforms have been flooded with some critiques and concerns with many finding it somewhat inappropriate. As a result of this, Theron and Madonna have been accused of emasculating black boys. After Charlize Theron had been spotted a few times with her adopted son Jackson a stream of speculations has risen several times on how the ‘Italian Job’ actress dresses her son. According to Daily Mail UK, Charlize Theron has been raising Jackson as a girl after revealing that Jackson preferred to be dressed as a girl. A startling comment was also shared on Daily Mail regarding the situation, “this is what happens when whites adopt black children”, one person wrote The publication also revealed that the actress said, “they were born who they are and exactly where in the world both of them get to find themselves as they grow up, and who they want to be, is not for me to decide”.  “My job as a parent is to celebrate them and to love them and to make sure that they have everything they need to be what they want to be.” On the other hand, Madonna has also been in a questionable situation with her son David Banda. Madonna’s son Banda recently sent the internet into a frenzy after strutting in a red figure-hugging dress.  The 15 year old rocked matching Adidas x Gucci outfits with his mother as he walked alongside.  This was not the first event that Madonna’s son wore a dress.  David dressed in a long, flowing white silk dress in a video that his famous mom shared sometime last year. Theron and Madonna have been the subject of talk on social media platforms following these events.