Fast-food brand Chicken Licken is looking to find 31-year-old Jamie from Soweto his soul mate.  The musician, who loves music, travel, anime, good times, and good vibes, playing himself, appears in Chicken Licken’s latest television ad as someone looking for love. The advert speaks to the hearts of South Africans also looking for love and with the help of a dating app, created for the ad campaign, called Tender, Chicken Licken hopes to find Jamie’s soul mate. The advert sees Jamie waking up in his home, walking down the street he lives on, and catching a taxi to work just like he does every day. On his journey it seems like love is all around him and the only person that looks like they need love, is Jamie. This is also painfully pointed out by his “inner voice”, played by musician and songwriter Msaki, who follows Jamie singing her rendition of “What Jamie needs now, is love, sweet love.” Everyone seems to have found their someone, except Jamie who at the end of the commercial finds himself sitting on a bench, alone in a park. It it here where Jamie seemingly meets the love of his life only to realise that he is in the middle of someone else’s meet cute, a couple who has found love with the Love Me Tender burger from Chicken Licken The commercial ends with a simple call to action: Help Jamie Find Love at tenderapp.co.za.The brand is asking South Africans looking for love to create a profile on the Tender app, and stand a chance of becoming Jamie’s soul mate. The campaign runs for the next eight weeks and includes social media, digital, outdoor, TV and radio. The public can vote for their best matches, as will Jamie, until he finds the one. Their identity will be kept top secret and will be revealed in a surprise conclusion. “Chicken Licken is a brand that is lovingly referred to as Mzansi’s soul food. And if the way to a man’s heart is through his stomach, then using a Chicken Licken Tender burger to find Jamie his soul mate makes complete sense,” said Xolisa Dyeshana, Joe Public Chief Creative Officer. “The campaign will not be measured on KPI’s, or targets, or sales, or even ROI’s. This campaign has one goal and one goal alone. To find Jamie love.”