Johannesburg - The City of Johannesburg is investigating a ‘rotten egg’ smell that has been experienced in central and northern parts of Johannesburg on Wednesday. On Wednesday morning , there were numerous residents of Johannesburg who complained about a foul smell being experienced in parts of the metro. MMC for Environment & Infrastructure Services Department (EISD) Michael Sun said he noted with concern the complaints of a pungent smell being experienced in central and northern parts of Johannesburg. Weather forecaster Gauteng Weather further issued a tweet stating that the big stink was due to winds blowing from Mpumalanga. ⚠️ ALERT: BIG STINK RETURNS TO GAUTENG DUE TO WINDS BLOWING IN FROM MPUMALANGA!!! UNHEALTHY AIR QUALITY FOR SENSITIVE GROUPS UNTIL SATURDAY!!! “Upon instructing the city’s Air Quality Management Unit to urgently investigate the origin of the stench they have established the smell was wide-spread across the city which thankfully excludes the possibility of a localised source in Johannesburg,” Sun said. The MMC urged the people of Johannesburg not to panic. “It was concluded by EISD investigators that the city is potentially dealing with a cross-boundary pollution source. They believe that this is likely a fleeting event based on prevailing weather conditions and that the quality of air in Johannesburg remains at acceptable levels,” he said. The EISD said that the current weather system is conducive to the transportation of pollution from the Highveld Priority Area and the industrial complex of Mpumalanga, which run more power generation and petrochemical industrial operations. The city said the ‘rotten egg’ smell observed by residents is commonly associated with Hydrogen Sulphide and could be likely associated with those types of operations. “The city commands a network of 6 operational ambient Air Quality Station that are monitoring particulate matter, Sulphur dioxide, Oxides of Nitrogen and Ozone. The expertise controlling these stations within EISD will work with other spheres of government to track and identify the source of this smell,” Sun said. The situation will be observed over the coming days as the weather system improves, he added.