There are less than 24 hours left before Gauteng residents experience a planned water outage this weekend. Gauteng residents are bracing themselves for a planned and prolonged shutdown of water by water utility Rand Water from Friday morning at 5am to Saturday at 5am. Rand Water will be installing a new pumpset valve at the Vereeniging Water treatment plant. The impact of the water interruption will be felt for residents in the City of Johannesburg, Merafong, Mogale City, Rustenberg and Rand West. City of Johannesburg MMC for Environment & Infrastructure Services Michael Sun said that as several Johannesburg areas brace themselves for the shutdown, residents need to appreciate that such outages are vital to ensure the long term sustainability of water supply in the city. “Life can become unbearable without an uninterrupted water supply, but this work is critical, and we are at the mercy of Rand Water which supplies our own municipal entity Joburg Water,” Sun said. There are many areas that will be affected across Johannesburg, including: Amalgam, Albertville, Albertskroon, Aldara Park, Auckland Park & extensions, Berario, Bergbron, Braamfontein, Blackheath, Brixton, Blairgowrie, Bosmont, Burgersdorp, Constantia Kloof, Cottesloe, Cresta & extensions, Crown City, Crown & extensions, De La Rey, East Town, Eldorado Estate, Florida Glen, Fontainebleau, Greymont, Hursthill, Industria & extensions, Jan Hofmeyr, Langlaagte North, Laser Park, Linden & extensions, Little Falls, Martindale, Mayfair, Melville & extensions, Montclare, Montreux, Moret, Nancefield, Newlands, Northcliff & extensions, Olievenhout, Parktown, Parkview, Pine Park, Quellerina, Radiokop, Randburg, Randpark Ridge, Robindale, Risidale, Riverlea, Roodepoort, Ruimsig, Ruitenhof, Strubens Valley, Selby, Triomf, Victory Park, Vredepark, Westbury, Westdene, Weltevreden Park, Wilgeheuwel, Windsor and Zandspruit. The city said that in preparation for the operation, it ensured all reservoirs affected are filled to the very top levels before supply is cut, lessening the overall impact on water services. Water utility Johannesburg Water will also dispatch water tankers to every single affected area for the duration of the outage. Exact locations of each tanker will be communicated by  Johannesburg Water before the shutdown commences, according to the city. “We appeal to everyone for their patience. This maintenance needs to happen to guarantee Johannesburg has regular and reliable water supply in the medium to long term,” Sun added. “We will be monitoring the situation closely to ensure work is carried out as fast as possible to return services to affected residents.” The Star