Siyabonga Sithole The court case between former minister of finance, Trevor Manuel and media personality, Dr Onkgopotse JJ Tabane is set to get underway at the Johannesburg High Court tomorrow (13 June 2022). The court case was recently postponed following an urgent application by Manuel to force Tabane to apologize which was rejected by the respondent who said the matter was not urgent adding that Manuel should not try to jump the queue but  wait for his turn. Last month, Manuel accused Tabane of defamatory statements alleging that he and other top ANC officials were at the centre of the formation of Congress of the People (Cope) on Sbusiso DJ Sbu's Hustlers Corner podcast published on 15 April 2022. In his notice of motion filed in court,  Manuel demands a retraction and apology from both Tabane and Leope and damages of R100, 000 from both respondents. The court papers lodged with the court on 18 May 2022 comes after Tabane refused to withdraw  his “false, unlawful and defamatory statements' ' against the former ANC NEC member who now has gone the legal route. “It is declared that statements made about the applicant by the first respondent and published by the second respondent  on 15 April 2922 and quoted  in paragraph 8 of the founding affidavit (defamatory statements) are defamatory, false and unlawful. The respondents are interdicted from publishing and republishing the statements, the episode and the second respondent's  podcast published on 15 April to the extent that includes defamatory statements that says or implies that the applicant involved in the formation of the Congress of the People(Cope),” the notice of motion before the high court reads. In a recent radio interview with Bongani Bingwa, Tabane said he will welcome any ruling made by the court and asked for the matter to be ventilated in the court of law. “ I stand by my utterances and his lawyers have asked us not to repeat the allegations in public until the court pronounces on the matter. We will abide by this even though I still stand by what I said and should the court rule against me, I will be happy to abide by the court decision because I am a law abiding citizens” Tabane said ahead of the court case. Tabane says he has received a lot of support from ordinary South Africans who are donating their money in support of the court case. “ Many people are donating money to me to fight the case because they see it as free speech more than anything. So  it is not my money. I will at the end of the process do a tally. After the case, we will donate the rest of the money. Justice must not depend on whether the person has money or not,” he said.