Anti-Apartheid activist and human rights icon Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu  has this month been immortalized with a multimedia art exhibition at the Apartheid Museum in Johannesburg. Although only a temporary display, the museum said it went all out  with  the design and flow of the Nobel prize laureate who passed away in December 2021. The exhibition promises visitors a glimpse of the life and times of one the country's most beloved Freedom  fighters. The modern space on which the exhibition is mounted is draped with large images and quotations  signifying significant historical moments as well as achievements of the anti Apartheid  stalwart's life during his days in the struggle for freedom. The exhibition , titled, “Truth to Power: Desmond Tutu and the Churches in the Struggle against Apartheid, is inspired by a design adapted from a well-known Rose Window situated at St George's  Cathedral in Cape Town. Curator of the Apartheid Museum, Emilia  Potenza says the exhibition Maps the archbishops  legacy through five different themes represented as petals of the window. “The exhibition offers an opportunity  to reflect on the Archbishop's past and creates an opportunity  to open a dialogue about topics that affect the lives of citizens today,” said Potenza. Potenza also added that the exhibition is  created under five themes which include Apartheid  Education: The most evil Act  of All which is a representation of how Apartheid  era policies of Bantu education changed Tutu life and the history of the country. The second theme, titled Faith in Action: The campaign for Sanctions replicates  how Apartheid  if force able removal sparked International  sanctions, while the theme The Struggle in the church: Fighting a false gospel  view the church as a site of struggle between  those who  supported colonialism and racial oppression  and those who fought against it. The 4th theme, Protest and Peacemaking: In the streets and stadiums looks at how Tutu took every opportunity  to preach defiance of Apartheid,  with the last theme, Tutu, Truth, and Reconciliation: The unfinished business  portrays achievements of truth and Reconciliation  Commission  as well as its unfinished business. In addition to the five themes, Potenza notes that there are five films in the exhibition,  one for each of the themes in a bid to visually represent  what Tutu stood for as a person and an icon. “Being able to have a piece of what the archbishop  went through displayed in our museum is phenomenal,” adding that the understanding  and learning  about Tutu's wins and losses is precious  history that should be remembered  for as long as possible. “ The Tutu Exhibition  opened as a permanent installation in March this year at the old Granary Building in Buitenkant Street in Cape Town, where the DTLF is located. It opened when the Apartheid Museum reopened on 1 April 2022—after being closed to the public for almost two years,” said Potenza. On 26  December 2021, South Africans  woke up to the news that Tutu had died following a long battle with cancer. He was 90 years old when he passed on and was the last surviving  South African Nobel prize laureate.