Its been a few days since Something Soweto dropped his much-anticipated single “Amagents” and everyone can not seem to stop talking about the song. Fans and celebrities across social platforms gave his latest offering a nod of approval arguing that he remains one of the best vocal artists in Mzansi. Having received love and positive feedback the talent took to Twitter to express gratitude. “Number 1 song on Apple Music across all genres. Thank you so much for the overwhelming love and support you have all shown me by listening to the song.” His release happens a few weeks after South Africans were concerned after a picture of him looking slimmer was spread on social media. The award-winning talent assured his fans and followers that he was in good spirits, he just made a change in his lifestyle. Though he could not give clear details he was candid that he was also going through a lot. To assure his fans who were concerned about his health the Akulaleki hitmaker made a video where he shared details about his lifestyle changes. “ I just wanted to address the recent thing that is happening where people are talking about my weight and stuff. You are not wrong I am going through a lot. I just wanted to thank everyone who sent their prayers.  Those who sent their loving messages and support. I really appreciate it.” he shared He also added that he is not dying nor is he sick. “ I am not dying. I am not sick. Angiguli I just changed my lifestyle. There are things that I do not do anymore. There are things that I do not eat anymore. There are things that I do every day, like physical activities.”. With all the changes that he has made Mdolomba said it is expected that there is a transformation that happens physically. “ I have changed in my life and that is why I look like this. So this is what I wanted to address. And just to also thank you.” He also admitted that he is going through a lot of things that he might not be open about as they were personal. Something Soweto further highlighted is that artists need all the love and support. Something Soweto has been making performances locally and gracing his fans with stellar.