To facilitate the need of medical care for burn survivors, the Smile Foundation has extended their burn treatment. Every year, 3.2% of South Africa’s population are affected by burns with 60% of these cases in children, according to non-profit organisation the Smile Foundation. “This high occurrence of serious burn injuries is largely because of socio-economic factors like lack of electricity and inadequate housing. Many major burn incidents are because of shack fires often caused by paraffin stoves, open fires, and candles. With the coldest time of the year upon us, and a notable rise in South Africa’s load shedding, a spike in the number of burn cases is expected,” the Smile Foundation said. To facilitate the need for medical care for burn survivors, Smile Foundation has extended their burn treatment. Above the Smile Foundation’s burns awareness safety drive, the organisation has continued in raising funds to support various projects that will help bring burn expertise and specialised care to children, whose families could not otherwise afford it. The organisation further had a Smile Week in East London last month, where seven burn survivors underwent surgery. One recipient was 11-month-old Imbusise of Qonce, Eastern Cape, who endured painful burns to most of her body when a flask of boiling water fell over her at seven months. “Imbusise suffered deep burns to the dermis, which required skin grafts. She will still need more grafting at a later stage. Imbusise had developed subglottic stenosis – a narrowing of the airway below the vocal cords and above the trachea – which is especially common in burn survivors,” said Dr Sarita Pandey on Imbusise’s medical case post-surgery. The Smile Foundation said that since the incident, she underwent a series of operations and spent six weeks in intensive care. The toddler and her caregiver and great aunt are receiving counselling through the non-profit organisation. “Imbusise has a long road ahead of her and once the burns and the contractures are dealt with, her ENT specialist will later perform surgery to expand and repair her airway. Her next operation will depend on the severity and length of her stenosis, and she will have to make use of the tracheostomy tube that has been fitted to enable her breathing, for two to three years. Imbusise’s speech milestones will be delayed. To assist in this regard, we will later provide her with a tracheostomy speech valve,” Pandey added. The Smile Foundation said that there were many more children that the organisation endeavours to help, by sponsoring an additional operating theatre list once a month at Greys Hospital in KwaZulu-Natal. They added that this will help in grafting up to 80 children per year and alleviate some of the delays in accessing surgery for burn injuries. The organisation is also, through the backing of sponsors, supporting the renovation of the burns unit at Kimberley’s Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital and assisting with the fund-raising for the building of the first ever Burns Unit at Greys Hospital. In support of burn survivors and their families, the Smile Foundation, together with Avela Foundation, also runs U Matter, a parent and peer support group for burn survivors and their families in South Africa. @Chulu_M