Siyabonga Sithole  Former president Jacob Zuma’s legal team says it drafted its own charge sheet for the private prosecution of advocate Billy Downer. This after the National Prosecuting Authority’s (NPA) refusal to prosecute Downer of charges against him by Zuma for allegedly leaking his medical records to the media.  The NPA said it declined prosecuting Downer due to insufficient evidence that he leaked Zuma’s medical records. On Wednesday, the Jacob Zuma Foundation through its spokesperson, Mzwanele Manyi released a statement saying it welcomed the non prosecution certificate issued out by the NPA following its decision not to prosecute advocate Downer but questioned the timing of the decision, as it was a few days before Zuma’s appearance at the Pietermaritzburg High Court. “The malicious timing of the decision not to prosecute a matter which was reported to the Pietermaritzburg police station in October 2021 was the first sign of shenanigans by the NPA aimed at creating an artificial innocence of Downer just before the commencement of the court proceedings.” The foundation said it remained perturbed why the NPA took more than two months to furnish the former president with the one sentence certificate after seven demands and threats of litigation to compel advocate Shamila Batohi to produce the certificate of non-prosecution. “We hope that the necessary delays were not an early indication of a planned NPA Stalingrad approach to these serious criminal charges which will again be blamed on the former president,” Manyi said. Manyi says the private prosecution which they set to pursue as the foundation will be instituted within the required three month period of the date of the certificate being issued which expires on September 6. “We wish to assure the public that the prosecution will be instituted long before that date as the legal team had already started all the preparatory work.  “The draft charge sheet is ready. We look forward to seeing Mr Downer and his two accomplices in the dock and facing the music for the alleged criminal conduct. “In the meantime, we call on Batohi to do the right thing to remove Downer, who will soon be known as accused number one, from the current proceedings in the Pietermaritzburg High Court so that the matter may finally get under way without avoidable delays,” Manyi said. The foundation has accused Downer of contravening section 41(6) read with section 41(7) of the NPA Act 32 of 1998.  According to the foundation, this is a very serious offence which carries with it maximum sentence of 15 years imprisonment.