And Siyabonga Sithole A peaceful conference is on the cards at the 15th ANC Greater Johannesburg regional conference. This is what ANC National Executive Conference (NEC) member and Minister of Finance Enoch Godongwana and outgoing regional secretary Dada Morero have said. Godongwana said that he trusts that delegates will behave themselves following chaotic scenes between party leaders at the recent Ekurhuleni Regional Conference at Indaba Hotel in Fourways north of Johannesburg last weekend which was described by Gauteng Premier David Makhura as a ‘war zone’ after disputes over adoption of credentials and voter manipulation. “This is one of the most peaceful and disciplined regions in the province. We are proud of them and confident that we will not see any problems like we did last week at the Ekurhuleni Regional Conference.,” Godongwana said. Godongwana said that he was proud that Johannesburg delegates are going to  have a proper ANC conference with no drama come Sunday “We will conclude the proceedings. These comrades are very disciplined” he said. During the first session Morero joked that the region isn't similar to that of the Ekurhuleni region saying there will be no problems this weekend. “This will be the most peaceful regional conference because we as a region are peaceful people. Our ambassador is on her way to attend the Tshwane regional conference where she is expected to also give her input to the people of Tshwane about the Palestine situation. We hope that Tshwane regions did not invite delegates from Ekurhuleni,” he joked. The same sentiments were echoed by members of the region's  peacekeepers, Vusi Ntuli who are part of the security detail at the entrance of the Idle Winds Lodge and Conference Centre who told this newspaper that he and his team are running a right ship with many unaccredited guests being turned away as they searched incoming cats to maintain high discipline. “There will be no fights here. We are not like the other regions. We will make sure that the conference takes place under peaceful and disciplined circumstances. Alcohol and cooler bags are not allowed in this venue as this will create problems of having people coming to vote while being drunk. That is not allowed,” he said. The delegates are now heading to have dinner then they will check into their allocated hotels. The conference will resume at 8am on Saturday. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za