The ANC in Johannesburg has appealed to its members not to use the death of its former regional treasurer Mpho Moerane as a campaigning tool. Comrades within the region had been accusing each other of dirty politics after a string of deaths that have rocked the region.  The latest death was that of the former mayor of the city, who was contesting for chairperson of the region in the next conference of the ANC at the end of the week. At a media briefing announcing the readiness for the congress, the region’s spokesperson Sasa Manganye warned comrades to keep it clean leading up to the congress. “The dirty politics that we need to avoid is when we lose our regional fund-raiser and people start to want to accuse comrades to have been involved in his demise, which is unfortunate,” Manganye said. He said it was important to note that despite senior leaders of the ANC in the region dying from road accidents, accidents can happen to anyone. “It’s unfair to want to attribute any accident that led to our leader to be hospitalised and succumb to his wounds and then you want to reduce it to certain individuals. We are all pained by the incident,” Manganye said. The Star understands that the general secretary of the region, Dada Morero, will contest Eunice Mgcina for the position of chairperson and Manganye will contest Justice Ngalonkulu for the position of general secretary. Morero said the region was ready for its congress, which is going to be held in Midrand from Friday to Sunday. About 300 voting delegates were expected. Morero said the region had managed to solve a number of disputes which came from branches. The branches would normally nominate their preferred candidates and would also send a number of delegates to the congress.  The disputes concerned disrupted meetings, audit verifications, and a dispute concerning guidelines. “All disputes lodged with the regional dispute committee were all attended to the extent at which we have resolved all disputes. The appeals committee completed its work yesterday and we are satisfied,” Morero said. Morero said the region had to postpone the congress twice to give the region time to deal with housekeeping issues, including the death of its regional treasurer, Moerane. Morero said it was difficult for him to speak on the deaths of top leaders in the region. “It is difficult to speak about death because I am not God, except to say death happens. It’s just unfortunate that in our region we have lost a number of comrades. Within a period of seven to eight months we lost about five regional executive members." Morero said the ANC should continue to pray to end the deaths that have been occurring. He told the media that there were two slates that would be contesting at the congress. “We do expect that there will be discussion and negotiations between the two groups leading up to the weekend. That possibility is there and both sides are open,” Morero said. The congress will discuss a number of reports, including the financial report, organisational report and political report.  Former statistician-general Pali Lehohla will also deliver a message to the congress. There will be at least four commissions and strategy sessions of how the ANC will take back the City of Joburg out of DA hands.