THE Glenwood Neighbourhood Watch (NHW) has reacted with dismay to bystanders who started stuffing their pockets with money while robbers made their getaway after a cash-in-transit van was bombed near Goodwood on Tuesday. In videos posted on social media, bystanders are seen collecting what is left of the money scattered around the scene. The incident occurred after a Jeep driving along the N7 abruptly stopped in the middle of the road, causing a light delivery vehicle to collide with the cash-in-transit van, according to police. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Robert Netshiunda said the suspects were alleged to have used explosives to blow the safe open. A vehicle is reported to have caught fire during the robbery. "Members of the Durban National Intervention Unit responded to the robbery and during the shoot-out one suspect sustained a gunshot wound, while another injured himself during the explosion. Both the security guard and the driver of the cash van also sustained gunshot injuries during the ordeal and were taken to hospital for treatment,”  Netshiunda said. Four suspects aged between 21 and 42 were arrested and will soon appear before the Goodwood Magistrate's Court on charges of a cash in-transit heist, attempted murder, illegal possession of firearm and ammunition as well as possession of an explosive device. Netshiunda said a 72-hour activation plan has been instituted to hunt down other suspects who got away with an undisclosed amount of money Glenwood NHW deputy chairperson Jas Visser said it was an “absolute disgrace” how the public acted during the heist. “Unfortunately, it was also very disturbing to see the way onlookers acted, during the chaos which ensued, whilst the robbers made their get-away some of them actually started stuffing their pockets with money which was dropped during the heist, an absolute disgrace,” he said. Visser said all neighbourhood watches were mobilised and assisted with the monitoring of access routes into the various areas on Tuesday to ensure that the fleeing robbers could not gain entry into their different communities.