Johanensburg - Crochet enthusiast and top matric Parktown High School for Girls’ pupil Bokamoso Monare said the patterns and structured nature of the activity helped her not only to relax, but also made her see what she wanted to achieve. She achieved six distinctions in English (home language), maths, life orientation, history, life sciences and physical sciences. Bokamoso said that going through the process of getting to the finished product made crochet a nice escape from studying. “Reading comic books also helped and I would get some entertainment from that. I was allowing myself to be removed from the seriousness of the reality of a stressful schooling year,” said Bokamoso. Bokamoso said that she was able to weave herself through the year with massive support from her family. “My mother is a stay-at-home mom, so she has been involved in every single aspect of my schooling. She would attend my extramural activities, parents’ evenings among other things. “There was a point when she was part of the parents’ association. She would attend all the meetings that were needed and she would always be there to make schooling as engaging as possible,” she said. Bokamoso said her mother always told her that she had to not only attend school, but also care about her school and schooling environment. She said that her older brother was also a very important person during a testing year as he offered advice and an ear to listen when she needed to talk. “He would tell me how to better myself and not repeat the mistake that he did, and he would always give me advice and listen to me,” said Bokamoso. Her father provided her with sincerity of pride in her that made her feel like a golden star and would constantly tell Bokamoso she was amazing and how capable she was and her ability to fulfil her potential before she could see it herself. “He has been extremely helpful in seeing my worth , he’s been amazing in that aspect,” said Bokamoso. She fondly recalled how she would randomly begin writing on cupboards and how her parents eventually got her a whiteboard so she could make notes rather than use house furniture. Bokamoso also found solace in learning Korean in her spare time, something she found fun. “I know you would think a person would want to remove themselves from studying anything else during matric, but when studying something where there aren't any expectations it becomes very enjoyable,” she said Bokamoso would like to attend UCT, following in the footsteps of her father, who is an alumnus of the institution. “I remember seeing UCT when I was 8 years old during a family holiday, just seeing the campus was absolutely beautiful. I was stunned by the beauty of the campus. I would also listen to my father, who graduated from UCT, and listening to his stories of how the institution made his tertiary education unforgettable has stuck with me,” she said.  The Star