Johannesburg - A matriculant of a Vereeniging high school firmly believes that preparation saved her from what could have been the most difficult year of her secondary schooling. Busisiwe Ndebele, a matriculant of Phoenix High School in Vereeniging, told The Star that before starting Grade 12, there is a lot of pressure from teachers and family and numerous reminders that matric will be their toughest year of school. “But when you actually start matric, I realised that it wasn’t too difficult for me,” she said. “I went in prepared, so I didn’t necessarily feel that the year was difficult, but I also wouldn’t say that it was easy.” She achieved six distinctions in Afrikaans (first additional language), maths literacy, life orientation, business studies, hospitality studies and tourism. The matriculant said that some of her biggest highlights of 2021 were the pride she felt when she received her preliminary examination results and her matric dance. “My prelim results showed me that I am capable of getting the distinctions I want. I received four distinctions and I was really happy. Those results made me feel positive going into my final exams,” she said. She added that she and her classmates were able to celebrate one of the year’s most anticipated events, the matric dance, in December when lockdown restrictions were relaxed. “We had the chance to meet, have a party and enjoy each other’s company for the last time,” Busisiwe said. She said extramural activities were limited as a result of the pandemic; however, she was able to participate in the school’s arts festival, where she performed poetry in her favourite language, Afrikaans. The matriculant said going into her matric year she was concerned that she wouldn’t have the time and space to study after school because she had the responsibility of being the eldest of two children at home in Vereeniging. “I had to do my chores before studying, but I pulled through and managed to make time. I don’t know how I did it, but I did,” she joked. Busisiwe said she was planning on attending university at Central University of Technology, Free State, and Vaal University of Technology, where she aspires to get into hospitality management. She said she’s always been interested in the culinary arts and how dishes are made. She added that consumer studies was a subject she enjoyed in school; however, she is concerned about getting tertiary education funding. “The advice I would give to the Class of 2022 is no matter the pressure that comes from home or school, just focus and never ever stop studying. Nobody likes to study, but studying is what will get you the results you want,” Busisiwe said.  She added that the Class of 2022 must also help each other. The Star