CAPE TOWN - The education of more than 100 Uluntu Centre children and 12 employees in Gugulethu still hangs in the balance after the crèche on private company land was nearly demolished. NY 108 residents and some parents protested on Wednesday against eviction of the facility which has been in the community for nearly 40 years, and turned away a demolition truck. Police fired rubber bullets and used stun grenades on the crowd that barricaded the road with burning tyres and rubble. “Public Order Police used action to disperse the crowd. Our members will stay in the area to monitor the situation,” said police spokesperson Joseph Swartbooi. According to the crèche principal, Nombulelo Mzimkulu, the eviction was not supposed to happen, due to a pending court case that is scheduled for March. “This land belonged to another company who bought it from the City but gave us permission to continue with our operations. It was sold to these current owners called Gugulethu (Pty) Ltd. The owner also gave permission that we operate here. However, they made a U-turn and wanted us gone. They took us to court and last December our lawyer filed an application and we were supposed to return to court on March 2.” Mzimkulu said they were shocked this week when authorities arrived around 4am, kicked open their doors and broke windows. “A lot of furniture was damaged while they were carrying out the eviction. We have 195 children, so parents were inconvenienced. Neighbours offered to keep the children. I informed the lawyer but (they were) still in court. Our councillor is also trying to engage with the owners,” she said. Mzimkulu said that by late afternoon they were informed by their local councillor to move back into the facility, as he was engaging with the company’s representatives. Marc Matebe, the secretary of Gugulethu Uprising and UIuntu Resources Centre, said they were surprised by the action because they had communicated with the company on Wednesday and it was “agreed that there will not be an eviction”. Gugulethu (Pty) Ltd said in a statement that they attempted in 2019 to reach an agreement with the crèche, which is on a property they were supposed develop, but negotiations had got nowhere. It said in 2020, “we were left with no option other than to apply for eviction”. “As set out in the affidavit before the court, we offered Uluntu Crèche a five-year lease agreement at a rental of R10 a month with an option for a further five years. “We repeatedly negotiated during the course of 2020 and 2021 to incorporate the crèche as part of the development, or to contribute R500 000 to enable the crèche to set up nearby. Our company has bent over backwards, but without any success. In October 2021, we obtained a final order for the eviction of the crèche,” it said. Cape Times