Johannesburg - The only pupil in the history of Roedean School for Girls to be awarded honours in academics, sport and culturals plans to explore the world of engineering as she enters the next phase of her life. Beatrice Wharton-Hood, a matriculant from the private school for girls in Parktown told The Star that it was disappointing starting her matric year with online learning, because of the Covid-19 second wave. But said she learnt an important lesson. “We learnt from the previous matrics that we had to enjoy every day we had at school because we didn’t know the next time we would go back online but it was still a special year,” the 18 year old said.  “There were some challenges but our teachers were incredible in ensuring that we were up to date with our work and that we were thoroughly prepared for the preliminary exams and finals.” Wharton-Hood said although the pandemic interrupted certain sporting events, she wouldn’t change her last year of secondary schooling. She obtained eight distinctions in Advanced Programme Mathematics; Afrikaans First Additional Language; English Home Language; French Second Additional Language; History; Life Orientation; Mathematics; Physical Sciences.  Last year was a special year for her indeed as the matriculant participated, through Model United Nations (MUN) debating in the SA Institute of International Affairs (SAIIA) youth climate action policy committee, which formulated the South African Youth Statement in Climate Change for COP26. Last year also signified the year when the former learner made school history after being awarded honours in academics, sport and culturals.  The all-rounder received her sports honour at the end of her Grade 11 for tennis and hockey, she received her academic honour at the beginning of last year and her cultural honours for debating, MUN, public speaking and playing the flute just before she started her final examinations. “It was really exciting getting the honours but the most important thing is that it was never a thought that crossed my mind.  “I did all those activities because I absolutely loved them not because I was crashing awards or honours…  “I did all my activities at school because I loved everything I did and that’s what made school enjoyable for me,” she said. Wharton-Hood said she was hoping to get into the UCT, the University of Pretoria or Wits University for technical engineering to further her studies.  She said she set her sights on universities in the UK and Ireland. “Ever since I was little, I was fascinated by science and maths and I’ve always been fascinated by how the world works in terms of chemicals and I love learning and exploring new challenges.  “Engineering is such an interesting field and there is so much to learn and explore, I think it’s well suited for me,” the matriculant said. The Star