Johannesburg - Micayla Taylor’s parents may be divorced but their support played an important role in helping her achieve top results in the 2021 IEB matric examination. The King David School Victory Park, Johannesburg, matriculant achieved seven distinctions in her final exams in Afrikaans, Business Studies, English, Hebrew, Life Orientation, Mathematics and Advanced Programme English. Taylor told The Star that she was in Grade 11 when the Covid-19 pandemic wreaked havoc and disrupted lives around the world, impacting on the mental and emotional health of many. She, too, was affected.  “I think the pandemic was my biggest challenge. It was a whirlwind of a year which came with a lot of challenges. I had strength and I think I overcame a lot of obstacles,” Taylor said. She said social distancing was a big challenge because she was not able to go out frequently. “The friendships were a lot of work because of the social distancing and you could not blow out steam properly because you are at home,” Taylor said. Taylor said she relied a lot on her spirituality to get her through those tough days. “God and my parents played an important role in my life and even though my parents are divorced they have been there for me and I prayed everyday to God for the blessings,” Taylor said. She has applied to Wits University where she hopes to study economics or education. She said she would like to help her country to develop sound educational policies that would create an economy that is beneficial to all South Africans “I think that one of the issues is the education system so that’s where I want to use my education to benefit others and help South Africa,” she said. Her advice to the next class of matrics is to focus on their goals and  support each other. “It is the youth of today that can change the future. They need to work on their goals and their aspirations,” Taylor said. Taylor thanked the teachers and team at King David Victory Park for their contribution to her success, adding that the school was a family orientated institution where everyone knew each other, which was a great source of support. The Star