Johannesburg - A SAHETI School matriculant says he knew from the onset that if he wanted to acquire outstanding results in his matric year he would need to put in all the necessary work. His determination had Matheo Panayiotou secure an average of 88,4% and a full house of nine distinctions: Afrikaans, English, History, Information Technology, Life Orientation, Mathematics, Modern Greek, Physical Sciences, and Advanced Programme Mathematics. When asked by The Star how he felt when he received the news that he was among the top students, he described the feeling as euphoric. Matheo Panayiotou, 18, believes he gave his best shot when he wrote the final exams. “The best word I could use to describe the feeling would be euphoric. I understood at the beginning of my journey as a matriculant that if I wanted to achieve exceptional results I would have to put in a considerable number of hours of studying and give it my all, but even after doing that and having written my exams knowing that I had truly given it my all, I was still a bit shocked and overwhelmed with joy when I received my results,” said Panayiotou. Despite going through a chaotic year as a result of the pandemic, Panayiotou said the support from his parents encouraged him over hurdles. “There were obvious challenges put in place by Covid. Matric is a difficult journey to embark on in itself, but that being said, even under Covid restrictions along with the support and guidance from my family and friends I would like to think that I managed its challenges quite well. “These experiences gave me a profound feeling of gratitude and made me realise how fortunate I truly am for all that I have, especially the opportunity to complete my matric year at a school as prestigious and amazing as Saheti,” he said. Panayiotou also shared details of his philanthropic work. “Throughout Covid, my family and I aimed to make such a difficult time a little more bearable for those who are less fortunate by distributing food packages and clothing to people living on the side of the road. I also spent time at the Johannesburg Children’S Home donating and sorting clothes for the children who live there,” He said He added that these experiences gave him a profound feeling of appreciation and had him realise how fortunate he was. The young star said his best moment in high school was taking part in some extracurricular activities, where he met his best friends. “I was a member of the Saheti debate team, as well as a soccer and hockey player. These teams were where I made some of my best memories as a high school student and where I met some of my best friends,” he said. He is now all set to study engineering in the Netherlands which he feels he owes his father who is also an engineer. He also said it was through his dad that he developed his passion for mathematics and physics. “I’ve applied to study mechanical engineering in the Netherlands and hopefully, come September this year, that’s where I’ll be. It’s always been a dream of mine which I owe to the fact that my father is an engineer and through him, I developed a deep passion for Mathematics and Physics,” he said.  The Star