Johannesburg - A Soweto-based matric class of 2021 top achiever aspires to give South Africa a helping hand wherever he can by becoming a medical doctor. A typical school day for Forte Secondary School matriculant Karabo Dinelelo started at 7am when he would attend classes until about 4.30pm and when he arrived home, he would then attend online classes from 6pm and 8pm. He achieved eight distinctions in Setswana (home language), English (first additional language), maths, life orientation, accounting, business stud ies, life sciences and physical sciences.  This accumulated into what he would describe as a hectic, but academically, enjoyable year with some pressure to succeed. “I was proud of myself last year because I was part of the top five in my grade from term one until term three. It made me feel good and it encouraged me to keep on working hard because I was getting recognition for my performance,” Dinelelo said. The top achiever said his family played a very important role in supporting him last year. He reminisced about a day where his mother had to make last-minute plans to make sure he was able to write his National Benchmark Tests (NBT) and an entry test for a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB). “I also didn’t have as many chores last year to give me more time to focus on my studies,” he said. Dinelelo said he was planning to study medicine at Stellenbosch University and contribute meaningfully to the South African health-care system. “I feel that we still have a shortage of doctors for South Africa’s growing population and the Covid-19 pandemic has also shown me that South Africa is still in need of doctors.  “I want to give a helping hand wherever I can with my profession,” he said. He added that he felt ready to embark on the growling degree. Dinelelo’s advice to the matric class of 2022 is to encourage them to value every subject equally as they won’t be recognised for one subject only. “What matters is your average performance so being able to maintain your performance through all of your subjects is important and make good relationships in your matric year because teachers are really helpful, especially during the application process,” he said. He said he most looked forward to working toward independence, in all aspects including financial independence and other parts of life as he enters this new stage of his life. Dinelelo added that he looked forward to steering his life in his desired direction. The Star