After almost three years of evidence, some bordering on pathological lies and manipulative artifice, naysayers and volte-face under voir dire, the state capture report is finally out – one of three instalments. With the arson attack on the parliamentary building and the axe attack at the Constitutional Court, I wonder whether South Africans are finally “losing their marbles”. Then there was a fire at Waterkloof Air Base. What narrative is playing out? Are our national key points under siege? Or is this a carefully crafted enigma calibrated to sow anarchy and to send a clear warning to the other side that they are playing with fire? Or are these the work of mad men? We all know of the factionalism within the ANC. Amid the countdown to the ANC’s December elective conference, there are fatal cracks in the party’s architecture – so great many will crack under it. There are too many snakes in the ANC’s nest of vipers. Word is out – choose a side or choose a tombstone! With the first volume of the SCR made known, there must be no room for some sanitised immunity but instead a rogue’s march to jail. The AFU must ready itself for mass annexures when the final report comes out, those fingered will be bailing out like rats from a sinking ship. The findings reveal Tom Moyane, Brian Molefe and Dudu Myeni are all guilty of a range of offences and must be prosecuted. Chief architect and collaborator in this mess must be Jacob Zuma who ran amok while at the helm. He made a competent SAA board resign and replaced them with Myeni and crew who flew the state entity into turbulence. These people suffer from the Dunning-Kruger Effect – a hypothetical cognitive bias stating that people with low ability at a task overestimate their own ability. To add to the bifurcation, pretty and sassy Lindiwe Sisulu attacked the judiciary and Constitution. It was a discredited strategy. Raymond Zondo, soon to be appointed as Chief Justice of SA, reprobated on national television for her impertinent utterances and said it should not be allowed to stand. So the fissures are there. KEVIN GOVENDER | Shallcross. Daily News