Last week The Star published a story exposing More of being in the position illegally In a judgment handed down on 15 December 2021, Judge AJ van Rhyn found that More’s appointment as the man in charge of the Metro, was null and void since 30 October 2021 as the Municipal Council of Mangaung failed to act in accordance with legal prescripts. More, despite the judgment, had remained the acting City Manager and had entered into numerous contracts on behalf of the Municipality. In a dramatic move yesterday, the Municipal Council ordered More to vacate his position and report to his previous position as the HOD of its fleet and waste management division. The Star understands that the decision was made at a council meeting on Wednesday. The Court also found that More had no mandate to institute the proceedings that served before Judge van Rhyn and in an unprecedented step, ordered More to file an affidavit to show good cause why he shouldn’t be ordered to pay costs in his personal capacity. More appealed the judgment and anticipated that an appeal would temporarily save him from being liable to pay costs. The Mangaung Metro is set to appoint a new city manager in the next few days and applications for the position closed earlier this month. “More was sure he was getting the job but your two articles have stopped him in his tracks” a Municipal Council member said on condition of anonymity. The Star ran two stories on 12 January 2022 and 17 January 2022 exposing the rot in the Mangaung Metro and the fact that according to the Courts, More’s appointment was null and void. More, so The Star has learned, has briefed attorneys to  launch an urgent court application against the Metro to set aside the decision by the council to halt the appeal and to appoint a new city manager. More wants to remain the City Manager pending the outcome of the application. The Municipal Council is set to oppose this application and wants More out. The Star previously reported that the floodgates of litigation will open against the bankrupt Mangaung Municipality if More is allowed to stay on as the man in charge and negotiate and conclude multi million rand contracts. “The Municipality has heeded” a concerned resident of Mangaung told The Star.  Previously The Star reported that Bloemfontein businessman David Mothebe threatened to take the Municipality to court should More stay on. “ Mangaung is its knees and the man who appears to be in charge is not lawfully appointed. We (the residents) cannot have that”, Mothebe told The Star. The Star is investigating allegations against various individuals employed by the Mangaung Metro. One of these investigations deals with inflated overtime payments to security personal in the Offices of the Speaker, the Mayor and Deputy Mayor in the past. Documentation in our possession shows overtime paid to various security guards, usually more that their actual salaries, running into millions of rands. We will report on this matter in more detail shortly. At the time of the payments the current Mayor of Mangaung, Mxolisi Siyonzana was the Speaker and his guards received considerable overtime remuneration. The Star has been informed that the Hawks are also looking into this matter.