The Institute for Democracy and Transformation has joined the call for ANC Chief Whip Pemmy Majodina to get the chop. The Institute has now complained to Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane, requesting her to investigate ANC Chief Whip Pemmy Majodina and her son Mkhonto Wesizwe. This follows an expose of how Majodina’s son received a PPE tender and a graphics design deal with parliament. ANC MP Lawrence McDonald  has also laid a criminal complaint of fraud and corruption against Majodina at the Cape Town Central Police Station. The Institute has accused Majodina of suspending ANC MP Mervin Dirks as revenge for Dirks’ complaint about Majodina junior’s tender to procure thermometers for ANC constituency offices, an office that receives money from parliament in order to do its work. In January Dirks complained to SCOPA after a leaked audio where president Cyril Ramaphosa is heard saying he did not expose corruption by the some of the ANC’s presidential hopefuls because he wanted to protect the party. The audio, originally exposed by IOL - Independent Media’s online publication, sent waves within the ANC. Mkhonto Wesizwe Majodina is the sole director of King Mzimshe Trading. the previous sole director of the company is Majodina's daughter Lungiswa Majodina. The change in directorship was only made on 16 January 2020. Speaking to The Star yesterday Dirks said: “I am a public representative. I have a responsibility to expose corruption wherever it may lie. It’s unfortunate that whistle blowers must hunted down, suspected and victimised. All I asked was that the president account for his comments, now the Chief Whip, who also has a case to answer for, suspends me” Dirks said. The Institute says section 217 of the Constitution was broken. "The ANC’s Chief Whip has possibly broken the law and defrauded Parliament meaning that she would have defrauded the taxpayer. The law needs to act outside of ANC factions and investigate Ms Majodina. When news of Majodina’s tender the broke, the Chief Whip released a statement saying: “The Chief Whip is aware that this may be reasonably perceived as a form of abuse of office and nepotism due to the proximity of her son.” The ANC has not acted on Majodina. Majodina was not available to answer questions concerning the alleged revenge suspension.