DURBAN - THE eThekwini Municipality hosted the Inanda Heritage Route Tour at the weekend. The public tour aimed to highlight the importance of the area especially in the month of February. The late John Langalibalele Dube was born on February 11, 1871 near Inanda Mission and died on the same date in 1946. He was the founding president of the ruling party, the ANC. He was also a philosopher, publisher, educator, poet and reverend. Dube’s ideals were firmly rooted in the emancipation of Africans. The late former president Nelson Mandela was released from prison on February 11, 1990. Yesterday, those on the tour gathered at the North Beach Tourism Office before making their way to Inanda on the Ricksha bus. The bus made stops at the KwaMuhle Museum in the Durban CBD, the Mahatma Gandhi Settlement and the Ohlange Institute which was founded by Dube. The institute further houses the late Dube’s resting place next to his second wife Angelina. This is built next to his first house on the Ohlange site. The site also houses the JL Dube Hall where Nelson Mandela voted in the first democratic elections in 1994. Mandla Nxumalo, senior tourism officer and manager of the JL Dube heritage site on behalf of Durban Tourism, said that February 11 was a significant date. “This date is very important as it is the day that Reverend JL Dube was born and passed on. It is also the day that president Nelson Mandela was released from prison and he cast his first democratic vote at Ohlange Institute where the seed of democracy was sewn.” Melusi Khumalo, regional marketing manager for Durban Tourism said they had been pleased with the turnout for the tours. He further called on the public to visit historic sites in the city as it not only contributed to the tourism sector, but also promoted knowledge. He added that it was important for the public to learn their history. “It is important for people to know this history. There is a lot that people can learn, not only in politics but around the emancipation of black people,” said Khumalo. Ntombifuthi Khumalo said that she enjoyed the tour. “I just came along because my sister invited me but now I am having so much fun and learning so much about our heritage. This is important because this information is not incorporated into our curriculum at school,” said Khumalo. THE MERCURY