CAPE TOWN - A number of  African couples in the art fraternity will be among the 98 local and international exhibitors from 20 different countries at this year’s Investec Cape Town Art Fair. The event, described as the biggest art fair on the African continent, takes place at the Cape Town International Convention Centre from 18 to 20 February and will see  art enthusiasts flock to the first Investec Cape Town Art Fair hosted at a physical space since the commencement of lockdown. As part of  marking the month of love and in celebration of Valentine’s Day, artistic sweethearts will showcase some of their wares at the fair. Their love for art was the catalyst that inspired a number of their exhibitions, as well as their love for each other. Among them will be acclaimed ceramicist Andile Dyalvane and audio artist and ceramicist Nkuthazo Alexis Dyalvane. “When we met, we used to travel by train from Retreat to Woodstock, in Cape Town. I used to sketch in the train, and one day I noticed this beautiful lady. I found her so interesting and attractive, but I could not get myself to speak to her. Then one day, I made it easy for her to see my work, and I knew it would draw her attention. The next time we saw each other, she gave me a note with her details and asked to collaborate on a piece with me. We have since been collaborating artistically and as a couple, and we now have kids together,” said Andile. Nkuthazo Alexis said: “We spotted each other on the train, and we both looked artistic. Some things you just attract without words, just by our energy. I made the first move as I knew he would not have the courage to approach me, although he had courage in his eyes. So, I wrote him a note on a sweet wrapper, asking him for a collaboration.” The pair have gone on to become one of South Africa’s most revered power couples in the art and culture sector, bagging a number of awards and accolades. Their deep respect for each other’s art has been one of the reasons for their success, particularly for pieces and performances that connect modern life with traditional Xhosa practices and customs. Johannesburg-based visual artist Blessing Ngobeni creatively narrates themes that touch on social injustice as experienced by the majority of South Africans in post-apartheid South Africa. His large-scale, mixed-media paintings are often critical of the country’s political elite, highlighting their abuse of power. His partner, fellow artist Teresa Kutula Firmino’s works examine dominant histories and the effect they have on the present. Ngobeni said it took a couple of years to convince  Theresa to accept him. “It was a long process for her to be convinced of my feelings. We spent a lot of time in the studio, and at some point, she must have also fallen in love with my art, which helped me,”  he said. Other artistic couples include Brett Murray and Sanell Aggenbach, Norman O’Flynn and Liza Grobler, Jake Aikman and Alexandra Karakashian, Maja and Gerard Marx. Tickets for the ninth Investec Cape Town Art Fair can be purchased via the Webticket link on www.investeccapetownartfair.co.za All visitors will have to wear masks indoors and present proof of full vaccination status in paper or digital application, OR present proof of a negative Covid-19 test result (e.g. PCR test) taken within 72 hours of entering the Cape Town City Centre. Cape Times