CAPE TOWN - In what has been described as a “fight against boundless public power exercised by banks and other financial institutions”, Law Firm, Godrich Gardee Attorneys (GGA) has called on any clients who have experienced alleged racial or any other form of discrimination to join a class action suit against the country’s financial institutions. The law firm said it was bracing itself to intervene in the Western Cape Equality Court proceedings instituted by the Sekunjalo Group group of companies and its chairman, Dr Iqbal Survé against some of the country’s top banks. That application forms part of a number of legal actions against the banks after they, in an alleged collusive manner, severed ties with some of the companies under the black-owned group, with Nedbank being the latest. The action being taken by the Sekunjalo Group was a “trigger for a space we have wanted to get into as soon as possible,” said GGA attorney Godrich Gardee. During a press conference, he said that financial institutions operated “as a cartel with collusive behaviour” and furthermore “acted as an entity to themselves because there is no state bank”. “GGA represents thousands of complainants who intend on intervening in the proceedings instituted by Survé and 42 others before the Western Cape Equality Court against various South African banks on the basis of racial discrimination. Our clients represent a small group of South Africans who have been flagrantly overbilled on interest on their mortgage loans, and whose bank accounts have been arbitrarily terminated due to purported ‘risk’. The Equality Court case to be heard next month, has been brought against eight of South Africa’s leading banks including ABSA Bank, First National Bank, Nedbank, Investec Bank, Sasfin Bank, Mercantile  Bank among others. The banks have claimed that they have suffered reputational damage by companies' association to Survé and the wider Sekunjalo Group. The banks cited negative and factually incorrect media articles by the Independent Media’s competitors/detractors as the source to underpin their averments.  The companies belonging to the Sekunjalo group have never been found guilty of wrongdoing or irregularities even though they have been subjected to multiple investigations including raids by various regulatory bodies and law enforcement agencies. This included the Mpati Commission into alleged irregularities at the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) in 2019. The Sekunjalo Group of Companies argues that their attack was one based on discrimination on the basis of race. They allege that Nedbank, and the other major banks, terminated the bank accounts of the subsidiaries of the Sekunjalo Group, and have been selective by failing to do the same against companies that are ’white dominant businesses”. These include companies such as the Steinhoff Group, EOH  Limited, and the Tongaat-Hulett Group - after their banking accounts or facilities were not terminated despite having been found guilty of fraud and various other offences. In inviting clients to join the class action, Gardee called on “those whose banking services such as accounts, credit and loan facilities have been terminated and withdrawn without good cause or on the basis of racial discrimination.” “This includes those whose property was sold for next to nothing by the banks pursuant to the termination of loan facilities; those who have been denied banking services such as accounts, credit and loan facilities despite them meeting the requisite qualification for these facilities on the basis of racial discrimination disguised in other forms of discrimination…GGA understands the magnitude and significance of this matter and we are committed in this fight against the unconstitutional and discriminatory conduct by the banks and other financial institutions,” said Gardee. Speaking about their interest in the case, Gardee said: “It is common cause that in 1990, when these financial institutions entered the black mortgage market, they petitioned the government to allow them to charge black mortgage holders a premium interest rate in order to maintain profitability - smaller bonds mean smaller profits for banks…The conduct of these institutions goes against the provisions of teh Constitution, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, and the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act and the public has too long been defenceless against these commercial giants.” Cape Times