CAPE TOWN - Small- scale fishers have hailed the Western Cape High Court decision that the ban on Searcher’s seismic blasting off the west and south-west coast remains in place. On Monday, the high court ruled that the ban originally issued on February 7 would stay in place after foreign companies Searcher Geodata UK Limited and Searcher Seismic Australia challenged the earlier interim order directing it to discontinue any activities related to the seismic survey. This interim interdict is in place until the next court date on February 24 when the merits of the interim interdict will be argued to decide whether to keep the ban in place until the outcome of the review proceedings. Fisherwoman and chairperson of Coastal Links Saldanha and an applicant in the case, Carmelita Mostert said: “It is very telling that Searcher cannot confirm that it had consulted any of the affected communities when it applied for a permit to conduct seismic blasting in these seas that sustain us. Searcher did not give us any notice that it intended to start blasting, much less did they consult with us. We are very happy with the court outcome.” Christian Adams, a small-scale fisher from Steenberg Cove on the West Coast and member of the South African Small-Scale Fishers Collective (SASSFC), is also an applicant in the case. “2022 is supposed to be the International Year of Artisanal Fisheries and Aquaculture as declared by the UN Food and Agriculture Council. However, we do not see or hear any support for the small-scale fisher from our government. But, just like the Shell debacle, the Searcher case is unifying small-scale fishers and indigenous peoples who have been marginalised in this country for too long. Today has been a good day, the law is on our side,” Adams said. The Green Connection’s strategic lead Liziwe McDaid said they were pleased with the outcome. “The ban against Searcher remains. We are happy that the law was once again on the side of the small-scale fishers who are fighting for their right, not only to sustain but also to decide their own livelihoods. For the Green Connection, the issue is simple. Development is not progress if it threatens or endangers our rich yet delicate marine ecosystems or if it risks dismantling thousands of livelihoods that have been established over many generations.” Searcher had argued that the applicants knew about the permit since at least December 31, 2021. “Searcher could potentially seek to offset this loss by deploying the vessel in other territories until the interim interdict is discharged. But at present, there is no viable alternative work that has been identified for the vessel and so there is no reason to be optimistic that the loss arising from the order made on February 7 can be mitigated. If it cannot, Searcher will have to give consideration to cancelling the project because it will be rendered financially unviable,” it argued.  Cape Times