Standing outside the Hillbrow Police station yesterday Joburg mayor Mpho Phalatse said she was not guilty of concealing any evidence related to the city's spying activities on ANC politicians. Phalatse had been accused by opposition parties of concealing evidence related to a “spy” machine that the city had purchased when the DA came into power in 2016. The machine was bought after then Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba launched the Group Forensic Investigation Services (GFIS) in a bid to rid the city of corruption and fraud. After calls for the mayor to be arrested earlier this week, Phalatse and the Speaker of Council, Vasco da Gama, briefed the media outside the police station. Phalatse told the media that she was not guilty of any crime and that she had received a report from the State Security Agency (SSA) clearing the City of Johannesburg of any wrongdoing. “The City of Johannesburg and the Group Forensic Investigation Services do not own, nor do they use, spy equipment. The very serious and unsubstantiated allegations made by councillors and rogue City officials of among other things, fraud, corruption and even espionage will not be left unchallenged,” Phalatse said. Phalatse said there was confusion about the activities of GFIS because of the negative reporting around the Technical Surveillance Counter Measure (TSCM) machine. She said the machine the City had in its possession was a surveillance machine, and not spy equipment. “The report is clear in its articulation where it states that the instruments in question are Technical Surveillance Counter Measure equipment (TSCM). TSCM equipment is utilised for the identification of eavesdropping devices and cannot be repurposed to perform any other offensive or collection function. It is not intelligence gathering equipment, as was alleged,” Phalatse said. Phalatse further said she would be taking action against the councillors and city officials who provided false information concerning the TSCM machine. “Through our own internal policies and regulations that will guide the Speaker of council, Vasco da Gama, and acting City Manager Brian Maduka on the appropriate way forward in order to allow those process to unfold without prejudice, we ask that you grant us the space and time before we can comment publicly,” Phalatse said. Phalatse had confirmed that the city had also appointed independent investigators to look into the matter. She said she was ready to put the allegations made against her and the city behind her following the SSA report. Meanwhile, opposition parties will have a press conference this week in response to the SSA report on the mayor’s desk.