SAFTU (SA Federation of Trade Unions) president Ruth Ntlokotse faces suspension from the federation after her union, the Nation Union of Metal Workers of SA (Numsa), placed her on suspension pending an investigation. Numsa general secretary Irvin Jim told the media in a briefing following the union’s central executive committee meeting, that Ntlokotse was suspended because her name was being used in a campaign to sow disunity in the union. Ntlokotse is currently the president of Saftu and the second deputy president of Numsa.  The union has accused her of doing nothing about campaign that made her seem like a victim of patriarchy within the top structure of the union. “For weeks and for months there has been a running propaganda in those platforms that she is being dealt with. The union has got issues, the patriachists in Numsa. Our second deputy president did not come out and distance herself,” Jim said. He said it was not clear what Ntlokotse would gain from a propaganda campaign involving her. “We firmly believe in collective leadership working together and championing unity of the organisation. And if anybody is being suspended or disciplined by the organisation it is to preserve that unity,” Jim said. In May Saftu held an intense national elective congress which saw divisions in the federation related to national office bearers who were suspended after being found to have usurped the powers of the national executive committee by suspending Zwelinzima Vavi who is the secretary general of the federation. Numsa and other unions had threatened to walk out of the congress if the matter of the suspended leaders was not dealt with in congress. This saw the emergence of a splinter group in the union which called itself Numsa 2. The splinter group was in favour of the NEC decision to suspend the NOBs. Jim said leading up to the union’s elective congress this month there have been many groups developing and a smear campaign on some leaders of the union.  He said those who were guilty of sowing divisions in the federation would be dealt with. Numsa president Andrew Chirwa said he could not rule out that there could be more suspensions of those who were sowing disunity in the union at the Saftu congress.  He said currently Numsa had suspended six NEC members. “What we cannot account for are decisions at the level of the regional structures if there has been any further actions,” Chirwa said. Chirwa said Ntlokotse’s suspension would impact her role as Saftu president.  He said the union as the affiliate of the federation impacted what happens in the federation. “Saftu is a federation of affiliates so you participate in Saftu on the basis that you are a member of an affiliate in good standing,” Chirwa said. Saftu was expected to make a media statement on its president’s suspension.