Siyabonga Sithole Suspended member of Umkhonto weSizwe, Military Veterans Association’s (MKMVA) Carl Niehaus has accused the Cyril Ramaphosa regime of using the courts and justice system to fight their enemies.  Niehaus was speaking at a media briefing held at Booysens Conference Centre where he and members of the Gauteng RET support group and Democracy in Action (DiA ) decried the state of judicial capture in the country, since Ramaphosa’s rise to the leadership position of the ANC and that of the country. The address by Niehaus and company comes just as the country takes a step back at former president Jacob Zuma’s 15- month prison sentence, which came into effect a year ago – on July 7, 2021.  The former ANC spokesperson, also took a swipe at Ramaphosa saying Phala Phala Farm was a “plain mafia-like corruption cartel”, adding that the South African justice system has become “dysfunctional, corrupt and captured”. This he said was evidenced by a series of court cases against members of the RET force and Jacob Zuma, who was sentenced to a 15- month jail term exactly a year ago. “Today is exactly a year ago, when on that fateful and cold winter night’s, (former) president Gedleyihlekisa Zuma, left his residence of Nkandla to the Estcourt prison to hand himself over to start servicing a 15-month prison sentence that was illegally imposed on him by by the Constitutional Court.  “When talking about the ills of our courts, and the legal system in South Africa in general, the importance of this watershed event should never be under estimated,” Niehaus said. Niehaus said the current regime is using the courts and the entire justice system to malign and and attack people perceived to be aligned with the RET forces, adding that he and many in the support group were victims of an agenda to use the courts to malign them. “There is an old Turkish saying, that that the fish rots from the head. This is true for our legal system, and how it manifests itself in the daily practices of our courts… As manifested by an array of politically motivated, targeted and selective prosecutions, as most prominently represented in the prosecutions of Ace Magashule, Bongani Bongo, Zandile Gumede, and others and are replicated in many different manifestations, served on long-suffering South Africans, throughout our legal systems,” he said. Following his recent acquittal by the Estcourt Magistrate’s court, Niehaus says the ANC has since reinstated his disciplinary case for bringing the ANC into disrepute after the party had abandoned this process against him. “The abuse of the courts and the entire justice system is best represented by the illegal arrest and prosecution against me. Following this case, the ANC stopped pursuing my disciplinary case and no sooner was I acquitted by the court, then on the same day of my acquittal, the party reinstated its disciplinary process against me. This goes to show how this new regime operates,” he said.