SIYABONGA SITHOLE Following the Mkhonto Wesisizwe Military Veterans Association (MKVMA) sitting at Booysens Conference Centre last weekend, the veterans association, led by Carl Niehaus, has called for President Cyril Ramaphosa and the entire ANC national executive committee (NEC) to step aside. These calls are part of the 21 resolutions taken by the MKMVA Gauteng Provincial Council during a special sitting at Booysens Conference Centre at the weekend. Speaking to The Star , Niehaus said the call for the entire ANC NEC and president to step aside were affirmed by the majority members who are fed-up by the Phala Phala issues, as well as the failures by the ANC to implement the resolutions of the Nasrec Conference in 2017. "Everyone wants to see Cyril a Ramaphosa go because he has failed to implement the policies of the previous 54th ANC conference," he said. He said the adoption of the 21 resolutions was unanimous, with more than 800 members attending the special sitting, adding that the attempts to dissolve and render the military veterans non-existent had failed. "We are fully functional and had a successful sitting which united behind a series of resolutions. Chief among them was for the entire ANC NEC to step aside and for Ramaphosa to go," he said. Furthermore, during the sitting, the uMkhonto Wesizwe Military Veterans Association accused the Department of Military's Veterans of using the ANC factional battles to target other members of the ANC, adding that MKMVA was the only legitimate veterans association of the ruling party. "The Department of Military Veterans (DMV) must be challenged legally for failing to service the military veterans constituency, and entertaining factional politics as instigated by deputy minister of defence and and military veterans, Thabang Makwetla," the resolution states. On Ramaphosa and the Phala Phala farm scandal, the MKMVA special sitting called for the president to step aside. "Following the Phala Phala farmgate scandal, (Ramaphosa) must immediately step aside, like everyone else who stepped aside. The entire NEC of the ANC has a responsibility to ensure that this happens," the association said. The resolutions go a step further, with the association saying the whole ANC NEC must step down forthwith, and must be replaced by a National Task Team (NTT) which must be established to take the ANC to the 55th national conference. "It was resolved that MKMVA should support and participate in the legal and lawful mobilisation that is organisationally sound within the ANC, as well as in broad civil society, aimed at getting Ramaphosa to do the right thing and immediately step aside, and for the ANC NEC to step down forthwith,“ Niehaus added.