Renowned South African novelist Zakes Mda and African American scholar Professor Molefi Kete Asante have been conferred with honorary doctorates by Wits University. The university bestowed honorary doctorates on the two giants in African literature and African studies respectively yesterday during its second cluster of graduations this year. The university said Mda and Asante were ambassadors of African excellence through their work. Asante, born Arthur Lee Smith, was honoured for his life-long commitment to African-centred scholarship and philosophy, as well as his influence and intellectual thought from and on Africa and the African Diaspora. He is currently the professor and chair in the Department of Africology and African American Studies at Temple University, Philadelphia, in the US, where he founded the PhD programme in African-American Studies. Asante is a co-founder of the ‘Journal of Black Studies’ and is recognised as the father of the theory of Afrocentricity. He is also the author of more than 77 books and the textbook ‘African American History: Journey of Liberation’, used in more than 400 schools in North America and is also a poet, dramatist and painter. Mda, full name Dr Zanemvula Kizito Gatyeni Mda, was honoured for his contribution to South Africa and the world’s cultural and literary sphere. Wits University said the novelist, playwright, painter, musical composer and academic has an established reputation as one South Africa’s pre-eminent novelists and was one of the first writers to face and address the complexities of the post-1990 transition. “Since 1995, Mda has published a succession of novels that have received favourable reviews and have won an array of prizes. A creative genius, his works toys with the intersection of social awareness and aesthetic exploration, and has expanded our sense of what it means to be South African,” the institution said. Wits University added that the July graduation season commenced with the capping of 152 PhD graduates who had completed extensive research and advanced scholarship by contributing novel ideas in their respective fields. During the season, 38 PhD graduates from the Faculty of Science will be capped, 34 from the Faculty of Health Sciences, 33 from the Faculty of Humanities, 29 from the Faculty of Commerce, Law and Management, and 18 from the Faculty of Engineering and the Built Environment. Billed as the season of senior degrees, more than half of the 2 041 qualifications to be conferred are for postgraduate studies. “Wits University looks forward to celebrating the occasion of graduation with our students and their families.  “We look forward to their contributions to society and we urge them to uphold the efforts of Witsies before them, such as the great Madiba, who is being celebrated globally this month,” said Professor Zeblon Vilakazi, Wits vice-chancellor and principal. @Chulu_M