The National Union of Metal Workers of South Africa (Numsa) has rejected a planned purchase of Telkom by network provider MTN. In a statement yesterday,  Numsa general-secretary Irvin Jim, said it had learnt of a planned privatisation of Telkom through media reports. Jim said if the plans to privatise Telkom materialise, they must be rejected. He said Numsa condemned any plan to privatise Telkom. Telkom is a state-owned enterprise and shareholder government currently owns a 40.5% stake in it. It is currently the country’s biggest telecommunications provider. “As of 2020 it has overtaken Cell C to become the country’s third largest mobile operator. We are opposed to any privatisation of state-owned companies. We have consistently warned about the dangers of privatisation and the dire impact this would have on the working class and the economy,” Jim said. Jim said Telkom as an SOE has a developmental role to play in the economy. “South Africa is a poor country with more than 46% unemployment. We are the most unequal country in the world. If we are to grow the economy, and the ICT sector as a whole, we must influence ICT policy and we must have a state owned Telecommunications company which will implement government policy,” Jim said. He said the role of an SOE was to grow the sector, to create a value chain and create jobs. “It also levels the playing field by controlling prices, and forcing the private sector to give greater access to the broader working class. If Telkom is privatised, its developmental agenda will be nullified. The private sector does not care about creating access to communities and the working class.” Jim said it was clear that SOEs were being used to benefit a few individuals and politicians. “We have seen how the ANC-led government has ensured that privatisation of SOEs benefits those who are politically connected to the leadership. SAA in its heyday provided over 40 000 jobs across the value chain. It contributed massively to the tourism and hospitality sector, many businesses collapsed as a result of its radical restructuring. It was sold for a mere R51 to the Takatso Consortium, in a deal which is shrouded in secrecy,” he said. Jim said there was no doubt that if this deal goes through, members of the ANC elite will benefit. “After all, Cyril Ramaphosa was the chairperson of MTN from 2001 to 2013, before becoming President of the country. Ramaphosa has made it his mission to sell all our state assets to private capital at the expense of the working class. We have seen this at Eskom as well where energy generation is privatised through the IPPs. This is clearly part of the ANC’s privatization agenda,” Jim said.