SIYABONGA SITHOLE This year, Johannesburg's oldest Children’s care facility, the Johannesburg Children’s Home (JCH) celebrates 130 years of taking care of some of the city's most vulnerable children. On Saturday, ahead of the celebration slated for October this year, and as part of the 67 Minutes International Mandela Day, the team from Supabets took time out of their busy schedule to bring some joy to the more than 60 children who call this safe haven their home. The team was on hand to clean windows, pack and donate more than 400 pre-packed food packs to the facility known for its dedication in protecting and bringing joy and hope to children on a daily basis. Armed with buckets and mops and dressed in casual  jeans, red T-shirts and takkies, the team from the sports betting organisation brought some colour to the spectacular and immaculate premises of the facility. Speaking to this newspaper,  an excited director of JCH, Annette Brokensha said she and her team were always happy to have individual and corporate support and donations as these went a long way in helping the facility achieve its mandate of feeding its children. "We are always happy to have visitors here. We welcome every bit of help, from individual donations to corporate donations as these help a great deal. July, being Nelson Mandela Month, is always the busiest time at Johannesburg Children's Home as individuals, businesses and other stakeholders visit us and donate their time, money and make other in-kind donations. These kind of gestures are always appreciated and welcome. We thank our visitors today, because with their donation we are assured that the children will have food for a long time. With these pre-packed food packs, children who visit their homes on school holidays or on weekends are guaranteed something to take home with when they visit their families. This will help a great deal for such occasions, Brokensha said. Supabets media manager Bavukile Mpama said when they conducted a social media poll of their customers, JCH came out tops, which is why he and his team made a commitment to donate their time and efforts to the facility ahead of the internationally celebrated 67 Minutes for Nelson Mandela Day celebrated each year on July 18. "It was through our online competition that we asked our customers to choose a charity of their choice that we should visit for Mandela Day and JCH came out tops. We know Mandela loved children and fought for them throughout his life. It gives us great joy for us to take part in this initiative. “We will also be making a stop to the People Opposed to Women Abuse (Powa) because gender-based violence is something that needs to be stopped. It has become a scary scourge in the country and we want to play our role in fighting it," Mpama said.