SIYABONGA SITHOLE and NTOMBI NKOSI Twenty-one people were shot and killed this weekend in three separate incidents in what looks like an apartheid-era third force elimination of local black people.  Gauteng Police Commissioner General Elias Mawela has confirmed a shooting in the early hours of yesterday in which 13 people were killed following a shooting inside Nomzamo Tavern in Orlando East, Soweto. According to Mawela the incident happened after midnight after unknown assailants opened fire resulting in the shooting of 23 people with 13 dying on the scene and ten others being rushed to Chris Baragwanath Hospital.  According to latest report one died on the way to hospital, another in hospital, and four of the initial 10 are still in hospital.  Speaking to eNCA, Mawela said he received a call just after midnight alerting him to the mass shooting in Orlando, Soweto, adding that the motive for the shooting is still yet unknown as police are still investigating the massacre. “Yes. I can confirm that the shooting did happen at about 12.30am. Primary investigations suggest that patrons were enjoying themselves in the tavern when random assailants opened fire resulting in the death of 13 people. 10 others were rushed to hospital,” he said. Mawela said there was a sudden proliferation of firearms, including high calibre deadly weapons, in the hands of wrong people. The Soweto attackers are believed to have been armed with AK-47s. Early this weekend on social media, a video purporting to have been posted by South Africa-based foreign nationals, threatened to escalate attacks on locals with heavy weaponry. The video, which has gone viral, says groups have been organised in Johannesburg, Pretoria, Durban and Cape Town, to defend foreigners from attacks by locals.  Following this incident and that of Enyobeni Tavern in East London, Mawela has pleaded for responsible use of alcohol and a relook at trading hours. “I think tavern owners should increase security in their establishments with controlled entry and CCTV cameras. Those responsible for by-laws should consider revising trading hours. People should not drink until the morning to minimise such incidents,” he said. In another bloody shooting KwaZulu-Natal police said two armed men stormed into an establishment at Sweetwaters in Pietermaritzburg and opened fire on patrons on Saturday night. Police said two armed men driving a VW Polo stormed into the establishment at Sweetwaters and opened fire on patrons, killing four. At least 12 people were shot - while eight others were admitted to hospital. "Suspects fled the scene soon after the incident. The deceased are aged between 30 and 45," said the police’s Nqobile Gwala. Meanwhile, there was another shooting incident at Kwanele tavern in Katlehong, Ekurhuleni, on Friday at around 10pm. Katlehong Police confirmed that two patrons were left dead and four others wounded and rushed to the hospital. It is alleged that four unknown males entered the tavern, one with firearm in his possession and he started firing shoots at the direction of patriots who were inside the tavern. Police found 19 cartridges as well as 13 live ammunition at the scene. No arrests made yet but police are investigating. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za