Siyabonga Sithole The Magadla family whose son, Khayalethu Magadla fell into an open manhole at the Eco Park in Dlamini Extension 1 over three weeks ago have requested that the Park be renamed  a “Khayalethu Magadla Park” in his honour. This request was made by family spokesperson Zakhele Khumalo at a memorial service held at the park on Friday. The service was attended by the leader of ActionSA, Herman Mashaba; the MMC for economic development, Nkululeko Mbundu; politician Bongani Baloyi; and leader of Operation Dududula, Nhlanhla Lux Dlamini, among others. It is not known if this request will be accepted by the city of Johannesburg as its executive mayor, Dr Mpho Phalatse, was said to be out of the country in Egypt. “The family have asked us to request that this very park we are in be renamed Khayalethu Magadla Park in honour of his memory,” the family spokesperson said to mourners gathered to pay their last respects to the 7- year-old “bright spark”, as they described him.  Mashaba said in his tribute to Khayalethu and the family: “I remember I was disappointed two weeks ago and came back last week when I heard through media that the rescue team was about to give up on the search.  “I said this was not going to happen under my watch and told MMC for Public Safety, David Tembe, not to stop the search. “I was glad to receive call on Saturday that he had been found. What I can say is that this has brought closure to the family,” Mashaba said. Mashaba added that since the advent of democracy, life for ordinary South Africans has not improved. “For the past 28 years, it has been a nightmare and hell for black people (under the ANC). Three fellow South Africans are lying underground in Lily Mine and the leaders have been lying to the families of these miners that the miners cannot be retrieved. We are still fighting for the container trapped underground to retrieved.  “We as the leaders have failed you and we are sorry. Let us use Khaya’s tragedy as something to learn from,” Mashaba said.  Lux Dlamini said children stood to die and would not fulfil their their truest potential if leaders and communities continued to interfere with the future of young people. He said the environment in local communities was not conducive for young people to succeed in life. "We have also failed the young man. If you want to be the best soccer player you must come from an environment, you can’t be a pilot from a street corner ...  “Old people have failed the children of this country. Drug dealers are people we know and most of you parents are scared of them.  “Khaya was a sacrificial lamb. It us 20 days to find Khaya. That young man fell into a dark hole and spent 20 days in water where for countless hours he was in water, a strong current sweeping against him,” Dlamini said. He called for the city to help intensify its fight against drugs and cable theft, claiming that it was the country’s failure to enforce the law that has contributed to illegal foreigners’ “reign of terror and selling of drugs to young people”. “I am not scared to say they are the big elephant in the room, and until we solve this issue, we cannot pretend to say we celebrate Khaya’s life because it was cut short,” Dlamini said.