Mpumalanga businessman Pompie Ledwaba, who previously accused Deputy President David Mabuza of killing whistle-blowers and political opponents, has made an about-turn in court, stating that he never accused Mabuza of any crimes.  Ledwaba’s lawyers argued that he simply said that people died while Mabuza was the premier of Mpumalanga and not that Mabuza had anything to do with the deaths. Ledwaba also complained to the court that a policeman who took Mabuza’s oath in Barberton was based in Pretoria and only had powers to take oaths in Pretoria. Mabuza launched interdict proceedings against Ledwaba in the high court to stop Ledwaba from making defamatory allegations against him, or prove it to be true. Mabuza has constantly denied that he directed criminals to fight his political or personal battles and that citizens with evidence linking him to any crime should approach the authorities. “This was the ideal opportunity for Ledwaba and his cohorts to come forward with evidence to substantiate his allegations. His capitulation in court speaks volumes,” General Mlungi Mphego, special adviser to Mabuza said. “This must be a lesson to those who made it their business to fabricate and trade in lies. We are coming for them,” Mphego said. For more than a decade Mabuza has been accused of orchestrating political killings in Mpumalanga. He has constantly denied this. His accusers have always been in the shadows. Ledwaba, however, publicly accused Mabuza and Mabuza took him to court. “We invited Ledwaba to come to court with evidence but he couldn’t produce one iota,” Ulrich Roux, the Johannesburg lawyer representing Mabuza said. Mabuza’s accusers have been taken head-on by the deputy president, also known as “The Cat” because of his political swarthiness. Previously Jan Venter laid criminal charges against Mabuza after being directed to the National Prosecuting Authority by people said to be close to President Cyril Ramaphosa.  Venter has since laid charges against Ramaphosa, various Cabinet ministers and the entire Constitutional Court bench. In recent court proceedings, Venter claimed to be mentally unfit and sought admission to a mental institution. Fred Daniel, another Mabuza accuser, launched proceedings against Mabuza, claiming that his life was in danger. In August 2019, Magistrate Sarel Grabe, sitting in the Carolina court, found that Daniel was “dishonest and an abuser of court proceedings”. Mabuza has remained ominously quiet about his future ambitions.  Previously he said that a strong ANC signals a strong South Africa. As Ramaphosa faces his toughest fight after former Intelligence head Arthur Fraser released evidence that Ramaphosa had hidden millions of rand in foreign currency in his Phala Phala farm in Limpopo, Mabuza is tipped to go head-to-head with Ramaphosa at the party’s 55th elective conference in December.  More than R80 million was stolen from the farm in a robbery that Ramaphosa allegedly used state resources to cover up.