SIYABONGA SITHOLE The Mdlalose tavern where 16 people between the ages of 19 and 35 died following a shooting in the early hours of Sunday was not merely a drinking place, but a place for locals to watch soccer and soapies and play snooker. Most of the patrons came from poor backgrounds and did not have electricity and TV to watch at their homes.  Many community members who lost their loved ones said their children played snooker to amuse themselves and pass the time as the area lacks facilities for young people. Zingisile Golimbi, father of 19-year-old Simthembile Gamade, told this newspaper that his son did not drink alcohol. He said his son loved to play snooker and died after he had left home for his last round of the game. “My son did not drink. He never touched alcohol but was there for his game of snooker table. Had I known, I would not have allowed him to go, but now there is nothing I can do,” the father said. Another community member, Nolwazi Nkonyeni, said she was angered by media reports and perceptions that people who frequented the establishment were there to drink, adding that many young people watched their daily dose of local soapies at the tavern as it has solar electricity.  Nomzamo settlement is known for its consistent battle with reliable electricity supply. This is because most of the shacks in the area are not connected to the grid, forcing community members to resort to illegally connect electricity from the flats nearby and from electricity pylons on the streets. “This area is known for its challenges with electricity, unemployment and many homes do not have reliable electricity. The tavern is the only place that has reliable electricity as they have solar electricity. The tavern is the only place that many of our children frequented to watch television and play snooker table. I am not happy about this perception that all those who died there were there to drink,” she said. The same sentiments were shared by Sizile Mjoli, aunt to Sithembiso Mjoli, 32, and Liyanda Mjoli, 19, who said her nephew spent most of his time at the tavern playing snooker. “Liyanda did not drink and was not there to drink but to play snooker, which he loved to play. It was his favourite way to pass time and he died there due to his love for the game of snooker.” Speaking during the community visit on Monday, City of Joburg mayor Mpho Phalatse promised to intervene with a comprehensive plan to solve the electricity problems alongside Eskom, which is responsible for electricity in most of Soweto. The community also decried the lack of facilities to keep young people away from drugs and other distractions.