Most of those who have seen him on screens or visited his business premises know him as “Willie” – a multi-hyphenate talent who is effortlessly doing it all. Willie Mogemi spoke candidly about his career endeavours and how they progressed from being just an idea to bringing them to life and flourishing in every aspect. In conversation with The Star, the Soweto TV presenter said he had always known that he aspired to be a hairstylist, not knowing he would be one of the most esteemed barbers in Soweto. “My business journey began a lot of time ago in Grade 6 when it was a careers day. I decided to be a hairstylist, not knowing that it would be my future journey,” said Willie. Mogemi, who is also a musician, explained that cutting hair had always been the basis of his life, and his passion for it pushed him to pursue it further, turning it into the focal point of his livelihood. “Cutting hair was my everyday thing. Cutting my family. Cutting my father, my sister, and my mother. When they see me, they see me as a machine.” The overwhelming support from his loved ones gave him enough confidence to have a barbershop called “Home Barber”, which he started in 2019. He explained that being artistic came in handy in the world of cutting and styling hair because with his skill set he could cut any style that customers wanted. The local entrepreneur was pleased with how most people referred to him as the “main barber” in the community, showing the massive  impact he had on people and his customers. Asked about what inspired his work, he said, “It is the creativity that comes with life itself. The community, the people who come through and give me a challenge is what inspires me to take myself further. Because I am an artistic person I tend to challenge myself every day to do something new,” he said. Willie hopes to build a franchise that will generate employment for young people, and also have programmes that will upskill them, particularly in schools.  He offered some words of advice for people who aspire to be on the same platform as him, highlighting that it is possible: “Follow your dreams, do not give up.”