SIYABONGA SITHOLE Ahead of the policy conference set for Nasrec this weekend, the ANC hosted its virtual media briefing on its social transformation discussion document which is aimed at taking the ruling party back to its former glory. The discussion document which spells the ruling party’s new wave of renewal was tabled by Minister of Tourism and ANC national executive committee member Lindiwe Sisulu, who remarked that the policy conference will wrap up this year’s Mandela Month celebrations.  Sisulu said the document gives the party an opportunity to introspect following the decline in fortunes of the ruling party, which lost most of the metros during last year’s local government elections. This is as the country continues to experience high levels of violent crime, poverty, unemployment and rising costs of living amid crippling fuel price hikes and food prices. “For us there could be nothing so paramount and dear than finding bold solutions to the bread-and-butter issues facing our people today. We all know the relevance of our policies will be judged by the extent to which they address pertinent issues of spiralling crime, electricity blackouts, rising costs of living, poverty, unemployment and enduring inequality. We are very much aware that our people are hungry for innovative ways of solving our country’s problems. This is a reality we bear at the back of our minds as we convene to deliberate on our policies,” she said. Sisulu added that the policy document which will dominate this weekend’s debates is as a result of a long policy development process which is centred on and inspired by the Freedom Charter.  Proposed solutions contained in the policy document touch on a range of issues to help solve the country’s litany of social and economic challenges as part of the ANC’s latest transformation agenda. “The strategic objective of social transformation is to transform society and build a new society that is peaceful, equal and just, as envisioned in the National Development Plan, the UN Agenda 2063 and Africa’s Agenda 2063. Our focus is to prioritise the rights of women, children and people with disabilities as well as the previously disadvantaged,” she said. Measures for social relief is also on the agenda of the policy discussion document, with the party saying it is looking at various social relief measures for people older than 18 years and younger than 60 who are overlooked by the social development system. Covid-19 has amplified the importance of comprehensive social security as a measure to address poverty, particularly in the context of long-term structural unemployment and inequality which have plagued the country even before the advent of the pandemic. Since there are social grants in place for children, the elderly and people living with disabilities, the focus must be on the 18-to-59 age group who are unable to support themselves. The party said in addition to policy discussion points, members of the party scheduled to gather in Nasrec will ventilate other issues of importance, including high rates of unemployment among young people, access to land, gender-based violence, crime, targeted housing and the poor performance of the country’s ailing economy. “Poor economic performance and unemployment is producing a pool of youth most of whom end up exposed to drug abuse, crime and other social ills. The responsibility towards youth is to nurture them to grow as responsible citizens, to engage them in sporting and cultural activities and focus on their growth in terms of education and skills development,” Sisulu said.