SIYABONGA SITHOLE THE National Union of Metalworkers SA’s 11th national congress set for today hangs in the balance following a Labour Court ruling interdiction the union from hosting the congress. On Sunday, Numsa said it was still studying the judgment by the court which declared the suspension of its second deputy president, Ruth Ntlokotse, and other members “unconstitutional, invalid and unenforceable”. Ntlokotse was suspended by the central committee on July 14 and subsequently brought the matter of her suspension to the court on an urgent basis on July 18 requesting the court to overturn her suspension and that of others. On Saturday, the court ruling by Judge Graham Moshoana interdicted the union from holding its upcoming 11th national congress set for July 25 to July 29. The application brought by Ntlokotse against the union chairperson was heard on Friday, July 22, with the judgment delivered on Saturday, July 23. It is yet not clear how Numsa will deal with this matter as the congress is supposed to get under way today (Monday). “We are currently studying the court judgment and once that is done, we will be able to respond accordingly,” Numsa spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi Majola told this newspaper on Sunday. The court ruled that the congress be interdicted and restrained from proceeding until Numsa complies fully with its own constitution adding that the trade union should rid itself of leadership tussles. “Trade unions must begin to rid themselves of trepidation of leadership tussle so as to ensure that their compliance with their own constitution is sanitised. “Having said that, the conclusion to reach is that the suspensions are declared to be invalid. The actions of placing the MRC under administration and usurping accreditation functions are unconstitutional. In the circumstances that the upcoming congress cannot continue until there is full compliance with the constitution of Numsa,” reads the judgment made by Moshoana. Moshoana who was scathing in his judgment said the suspensions by the central committee were not within its powers as detailed by the union’s own constitution.