SIYABONGA SITHOLE The SABC says it notes the death threats being made against one of its on air personality, Nomonde Vakalisa who is the co-host and stand-in presenter of Imvuselelo on Umhlobo Wenene FM.  According to reports, Vakalisa, who is the co-host of the show and is currently the host of the show following the sacking of her co-presenter, Reverend Mzukisi Faleni has been receiving death threats since she assumed hosting duties of the show after Faleni’s suspension for breaching his freelance contract. Faleni is accused (of) taking on a presenting gig from a community radio station, Zibonele FM in the Western Cape. The suspension of the man of the cloth recently caught the attention of MP and leader of the United Democratic Movement, General Bantu Holomisa who penned a letter addressed to the Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies, Khumbudzo Ntshaveni as well as chairperson of the SABC, Bongumusa Makhathini requesting that the public broadcaster reconsider its suspension of the reverend. In a response to this newspaper, SABC head of communications, Ndileka Cola says the matter against Faleni is a matter before the courts and will be best addressed through the courts adding that the public broadcaster has received the said letter from Holomisa. “The SABC can confirm that it received a letter from the leader of the UDM, Mr Bantu Holomisa, relating to the termination of Rev Mzukisi Faleni’s freelance contract for presenting the Imvuselelo programme on Umhlobo Wenene FM, due to a material breach of the said contract. Rev Faleni has subsequently opted to exercise his constitutional right by challenging this decision legally, which renders the matter sub judice. The SABC is therefore not at liberty to comment further on it or discuss it outside of the legal processes, Cola said. On the issue of death threats against its staffer, Cola says the SABC has noted the threats. “The station advised Ms Vakalisa to report the matter to the South African Police Services. This is because the threats are viewed as a serious criminal act which the SABC does not have the resources or capacity to investigate. The organisation also does not have resources to protect any of its employees and independent contractors outside of its premises.” Umhlobo Wenene co-host (was) threatened following suspension of main presenter," Cola added. Holomisa, in his letter says Faleni should be encouraged for using his gift to help a local radio station instead of being vilified for his efforts.