SIYABONGA SITHOLE The mayor of uMngeni Local Municipality, Chris Pappas, and the DA in KwaZulu-Natal have accused the ANC in the area of orchestrating illegal protests aimed at destabilising its work in the area. This week, residents blockaded the R617 road after parts of Howick were without electricity following an transformer explosion. The party said that following this explosion the party attempted to resolve the issue and informed residents of its plan to do so, but ANC members hijacked this issue in order to foment tensions with community members. The DA said it had photographic evidence of an ANC-branded vehicle which was part of this illegal protest, with some members of the ANC seen distributing food parcels to protesters. In a statement following this incident, the DA said services in the area had come to a standstill and the municipal offices were currently closed while parts of Howick were inaccessible. “It is infuriating that the ANC does not want to accept defeat and would rather disrupt service delivery out of their desperate need for power,” it said. Following this, the DA said it would take the matter up with the ANC provincial chairperson, Sihle Zikalala, to get him to intervene in the matter. “We will be taking a strong stance against those found to be responsible for this protest. It is time that the ANC accepts defeat in uMngeni and allows the DA to show them how to successfully run a municipality that puts residents and service delivery first,” the party said. In a voice note to the community, the mayor said he had been in contact with public order policing, both provincial and national. “We are not happy with the level of service we are receiving from them. There are a lot of excuses coming in relation to protecting law-abiding residents as it relates to public order policing... There is no excuse for letting people destroy property and stone vehicles,” Pappas said. This is after the police managed to disperse the crowd that had blockaded the roads and burnt tyres on Monday following the protests.