One suspect is expected to appear at the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court today in connection with the tavern shooting that happened in Katlehong, Ekurhuleni. The suspect is believed to be an officer at Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department (EMPD). His pictures and other information is making rounds on different social media platforms. Two people died, and four others were injured while drinking at Mputlane Inn tavern on 8 July. Police said, it was reported that four men, one of them armed with a 9mm pistol, entered the tavern and started shooting randomly at patrons. Six people were shot, leaving two dead on the scene and four injured. “The suspect is expected to appear before Palm Ridge Magistrates' Court on 25 July 2022. Police investigation still continues regarding this matter,” said Gauteng police spokesperson Colonel Dimakatso Sello. Sello urged the public to report any criminal activities to the police. One of the deceased is Sibusiso Hlatshwayo. His sister, Zanele Hlatshwayo, who is still hurting, told The Star that she knew who her brother's killer was. She named an EMPD officer. “I know that the metro police officer and my brother had a misunderstanding, and he is the one that killed my brother.,” Hlatshwayo said. Ekurhuleni Community Safety MMC Lethlogonolo Moseki has called for justice to be served following the arrest of a suspect allegedly involved in the Katlehong tavern shooting. Moseki said the city could confirm that the arrested individual is an employee of the EMPD. Furthermore, disciplinary procedures are currently being instituted against the individual. “We applaud the police for the swift arrest of the suspected shooter in the shooting. It doesn’t matter if he is a member of the EMPD. If the individual is guilty, justice must be served. The suspect will not receive any pity or special treatment from the side of the city. We will be observing the developments of this case with a close eye,” said Moseki. The suspect was arrested on Friday. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za