THE entertainment industry has to bear yet another loss of great talent after the announcement of the untimely passing of the esteemed veteran actor Mncedisi Shabangu. The SA Film and TV Awards-winning talent was well known for directing several theatre productions and also graced small screens on popular shows like Rhythm City, where he portrayed the role of Khulekani, The Lab, and iNumber Number among many others. His family confirmed the news and requested privacy while dealing with the loss. “It is with great sadness that the Shabangu Family informs you of the sudden passing of Mncedisi Baldwin Shabangu. He passed on in the early hours of this morning July 24. The family appreciates all messages of condolences and requests privacy at this difficult time. Memorial and funeral arrangements will be announced,” said the Shabangu family. In 2020, he attained a Safter for best supporting actor for playing Khulekani on Rhythm City. Over the years the Rhythm City  star solidified his name on television screens and in theatres, winning the hearts of many people at home. Joburg theatre has sent condolences through its social media pages, adding that his art will live on stages. “Joburg theatre mourns the passing of Mncedisi Shabangu. May his art live forever on our stages.“ Popular activist and poet Ntsiki Mazwai also turned to Twitter and said, “ Mncedisi Shabangu ... King ... Great Tree. Why,” wrote Mazwai. Hamilton Dlamini, who is also well-known on screens, took to his Instagram account to share the sad news about the thespian. Heartfelt condolences to his family and loved ones have been pouring in on social media platforms as people are reeling in shock. Fans and those who had worked with Shabangu have been sharing recollections of his extraordinary artistry while appreciating the talent he had. Shabangu’s death comes shortly after that of popular actress Busisiwe Lurayi, who was pronounced dead at her residence on Sunday, July 10, in Johannesburg. Renowned Rapper Tumi Tladi was 30 years old when the news about his death broke the internet, revealing that he died on Sunday, July 10, in Johannesburg. Details on the funeral of and memorial service for Shabangu are yet to be released by his family.