And Siyabonga Sithole Police Commissioner General Elias Mawela has confirmed a shooting in the early hours of Sunday in which 13 people were killed following a shooting inside Nomzamo Tavern in Orlando East, Soweto. According to Mawela the incident happened after midnight after unknown assailants opened fire, resulting in the shooting of 23 people with 13 dying on the scene and 10 others being rushed to Chris Baragwanath  Hospital. According to latest report one died on the way to hospital and four of the initial 10 are still in hospital. Speaking to ENCA, Mawela said he received a call just after midnight alerting him to the mass shooting, adding that the motive for the shooting was still yet unknown as police were still investigating the massacre. "Yes. I can confirm that the shooting did happen at about 12.30am. Primary investigations suggest that patrons were enjoying themselves in the tavern when random assailants opened fire resulting in the death of 13 people. Ten others were rushed to hospital," he said. Following this incident and that of Enyobeni Tavern in East London, Mawela has pleaded for responsible use of alcohol and a relook at trading hours. I think tavern owners should increase security in their establishments with controlled entry and CCTV cameras. Those responsible for by-laws should consider revising trading hours. People should not drink until the morning to minimise such incidents, "he said. Meanwhile, there was another shooting incident at Kwanele Tavern in Katlehong, Ekurhuleni on Friday at around 10pm. Katlehong police confirmed that two patrons were left dead and four others wounded and rushed to the hospital. It is alleged that four unknown black males entered the tavern, one with firearm in his possession, and started firing shoots at the direction of patriots who were inside the tavern. Police found 19 cartridges as well as 13 live rounds of ammunition at the scene. No arrests have been made yet but police are investigating. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za