The two cases of conspiracy to commit murder against convicted cop-turned-serial-killer Rosemary Nomia Ndlovu have been postponed to September. Ndlovu appeared briefly in the Kempton Park Magistrate’s Court yesterday on two separate cases of conspiracy to commit murder. The former police officer-turned-serial killer gained notoriety during her serial murders trial last year, which resulted in her six life sentences imprisonment after she ordered hits on five relatives and one lover. She fraudulently received over a million rand following the brutal killings of Madala Homu, 2, Audrey Ndlovu, 3, Hangwani Mabasa, 9, Zanele Motha, 10, Mayeni Mashaba and Brilliant Mashego from their insurance policies. Judge Ramarumo Monama convicted the former police officer of six murders, attempted murder, defeating the ends of justice and fraud. Ndlovu was back in court yesterday after she was accused of plotting the murder of Sergeant Keshi Mabunda, who investigated the killing sprees of her own family members, and Colonel Nthipe Boloka, who was her station commander at the Tembisa South police station where she worked. Ndlovu allegedly wanted them killed because they investigated her for the serial murders of her five relatives and a lover for insurance payouts. The Star understands that the co-accused in this matter is still at large.  Ndlovu also appeared for a separate case where she and her co-accused, Nomsa Mudau, also a former cop, were accused of plotting to murder Mudau’s ex-husband, Justice Mudau. In a similar pattern to the crimes that landed Ndlovu behind bars, Mudau’s husband was allegedly to be killed for an insurance payout.  According to the State, the husband was to be killed in their home in Kempton Park. He learnt about the plot from the hired “hitmen”, who warned him instead of going ahead with the dark plan. The Mudaus divorced in November 2021, following the fallout caused by the wife’s alleged plot. Both of Ndlovu’s matters were postponed to September 15, with her defence saying they wanted to bring some complaints to the Director of Public Prosecutions. During her previous appearance in court in June, the matter was postponed to give the police a chance to execute a warrant of arrest for her fugitive unnamed co-accused because he or she had evaded arrest. @Chulu_M