More tributes continued to stream in for the late ANC deputy secretary-general Yasmin “Jessie” Duarte. Duarte, 68, the longest-serving woman in the ANC Top Six died early on Sunday and she was buried later that day in a special official funeral service at Westpark Cemetery in Johannesburg. She served almost 10 years as the deputy secretary-general and 25 years on the ANC national executive committee. The ANC declared a week of mourning for Duarte. “Provinces of the ANC have been directed to fly the ANC flag at half-mast. Each province is expected to organise a provincial memorial service during this period,” ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile said. Mashatile said the national memorial service will take place on Thursday at the University of Joburg (UJ) in Soweto. Mashatile said the ANC will continue with Duarte’s legacy of selflessness, discipline, hard work and caring for the poor. The African National Congress Women’s League (ANCWL) NTT said they saluted Duarte’s contribution in fighting for women from the time of the Federation of South African Women (later Fedtraw) where she worked closely under Mama Albertina Sisulu and other women stalwarts who understood that the struggle against patriarchy must be pursued alongside the Struggle for freedom of the oppressed majority. “She lived for the movement and served in various capacities until the very end. She was very passionate about youth empowerment and education and also in defending the true character of the ANC.,” said ANCWL national spokesperson Meokgo Matuba. She said Duarte was an honest activist, progressively confrontational, radical and passionate against all forms of injustice. “Duarte has left behind a large footprint and decorated legacy spanning across Africa and the world through the various roles that she played both in the movement and in government. She was well respected by colleagues, activists and politicians in the international community,” said. The ANC will hold its Policy Conference in Nasrec from July 28 to 31. ANC NEC member Lindiwe Zulu paid tribute to Duarte and said she would want the party to continue its work. “The reason we are continuing with the work and not having to stop is because in celebrating her she would have expected us to continue with the work because the conference is around the corner and therefore we have to do what we have to do,” Zulu said. “We are aware that the whole nation is mourning Duarte because she was one of the people who contributed immensely to the liberation Struggle. I am hopeful that young people will be able to read the history of Duarte. She was more than just involved in the Struggle. She was involved in building the new South Africa we have today. She stood for non-racialism, a democratic country, freedom and emancipation of women”. ANC head of organising, Nomvula Mokonyane, said that with regards to the upcoming conference Duarte would have been outspoken and frank on policy imperatives. “She was one woman, one cadre who even now as we go to the Policy Conference would have been very outspoken, frank on the policy imperatives that we need to consider and the failures we would have gone through. She would have rallied everybody towards ensuring that there is a middle ground for everyone to contribute towards the way forward,” Mokonyane said. The South African Communist Party (SACP) said the alliance as a whole has suffered an irreplicable loss. “A while ago, Comrade Jessie revived her membership of the SACP and was a member of the SACP in good standing at the time of her passing. The party, like the ANC, will be poorer without her,” said the SACP’s Dr Alex Mohubetswane Mashilo. “In tribute to comrade Duarte, the SACP calls for the intensification of the struggle against patriarchy, one of the major features of a capitalist society, a struggle Comrade Jessie was passionate about. The Alliance and the entire progressive movement has the task of deepening the struggle against neo-liberalism and all its inherent features”. Delivering a eulogy at the funeral, President Cyril Ramaphosa said Duarte was gracious, compassionate and always kind, adding that she was always there, teaching, organising, and mobilising. “Let us in her memory and in following her example, strive towards unity and common purpose. Let us build a united nation and a united movement founded on the principles of our democratic Constitution. Comrade Jessie has run her race. Our nation’s thoughts and prayers are with the family at this difficult time,” Ramaphosa said. Speaking to the family, Ramaphosa said the nation shared in their grief. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za