Respected guests and local household names and all gathered together in an evening of celebration and commemoration at the Joburg Theatre’s 60 Anniversary Diamond Jubilee Evening of Celebration held at the theatre on Saturday. The night extended appreciation to directors, playwrights, musicians and choreographers who have largely contributed to their space and left a lasting mark the in the past 60 years. The evening also saw some of the theatre makers honoured in the diamond walk of fame. These included popular personalities such as Patrick Mynhard, Mimi Coetzee, Des/Dawn Lindberg, Joan Brickhill, Janice Honeyman, Johnny Clegg,  Athol Fugard, John Kani, Pieter Dirk-Uys, Mirriam Makeba, Hugh Masekela, Sibongile Khumalo, Gibson Kente, Prof Mzilikazi Khumalo, Tobie Cronje, Desmond Dube, Thembi Mtshali-Jones, Brenda Fassie, Trevor Noah and Greg Maqoma. Chief executive of Joburg City Theatres, Xoliswa Nduneni-Ngema spoke about the evening and honouring those who left a footprint in the arts. ‘’It has been a great joy and privilege to be able honour these leading lights in the theatre community. The role they have played in the success of the arts industry in Joburg and the country can never be overstated. Their influence and inspiration can be felt in tonight’s performances, in the 60th celebrations programming and in the Joburg Theatre itself as we look to the next 60 years,” said Ngema The evening featured music from Gershwin, Le Cage Aux Folles and The Colour Purple, excerpts from Fugard’s Waiting for Godot and Statements,  Zakes Mda’s Mother of Eating, as well as The Suit, King Kong and a Tribute to Gibson Kente and a dance piece from Revelations inspired by Alivin Ailey Dance Company who visited in the 90s. James Ngcobo who was recently appointed as an artistic director of JCT and director of the Diamond Jubilee Evening of Celebration shared the significance of the celebrations highlighting that the theatre was 60 years young and galloping ahead. “Our focus was on honouring the people who have become huge creatives interwoven with this space, you have all this beautiful space, all the infrastructure but you have to have content,” said Ngcobo.