There is no doubt that it has been both liberating and exciting for people to be out and about after a 2-year Covid-19-driven hiatus. Marvel Studios has just added to the thrill after announcing that the much-anticipated production of Thor: Love and Thunder would be showing in Mzansi cinemas from today. Thor: Love and Thunder headlines popular movie stars Chris Hemsworth (Thor) , Natalie Portman (Jane Foster), Tessa Thompson (King Valkyrie) and Christian Bale (Gorr the God Butcher). The special screening of this superhero film, that took place in Mall of Africa on Wednesday, will tell you everything you need to  know about how devoted people are to Marvel Studios productions. Celebrities, influencers and all those who graced the spectacular movie screening were all dressed to the occasion in red and blue, affirming the theme of “Love and Thunder”. This film, distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures is based on the Marvel Comics character, Thor, and is also a direct sequel to Thor: Ragnarok film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). In this movie, Thor teams up with King Valkyrie, Korg, and ex-girlfriend-turned-Mighty Thor Jane Foster as they take on a galactic killer known as Gorr the God Butcher. The God Butcher is a vindictive serial killer that targets gods. If anything we were to describe this new movie by Marvel Studios, it is about love, sacrifice, and selflessness. At the start of the movie, we are given a glimpse of Thor who seemingly has a thing for pushing away people that he loves, with the daunting fear of losing them. This all changes when he reunites his ex, Jane Foster, and they embark on a quest to save the world. The pair seems to have plenty of unfinished business but Thor is shocked to discover that his lover has stage 4 cancer. On the other hand, the battle is on as Gorr, the God Butcher challenges them in every way possible. The events that unfold as they fight Gorr will leave your emotions touched. With the large audience already applauding this new work of art of “Love and Thunder” Marvel fans can go and have their experience of the movie in theatres countrywide.