Police were on high alert on Sunday morning at the ANC’s Policy Conference in Soweto as anti-Cyril Ramaphosa protests took place outside the Nasrec Expo Centre. A group of protesters expressed their unhappiness with the state of the ANC under the presidency of Ramaphosa. The group included uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans (MKMVA) leader Carl Niehaus. Some pro-Ramaphosa supporters swore at Niehaus and some of the protesters called them fools.  The Star  understands that police had been told to be extra vigilant on the last day of the three-day conference as some leaders of the ruling party were anticipating chaos. “We are here because Cyril Ramaphosa has been charged with serious crimes. We are demanding that Cyril leaves as the president of the ANC and as president of the country,” Niehaus said. Niehaus, who was Nelson Mandela’s spokesperson in the past, said he had been banned from attending the policy conference. He said the “Rama” faction of the ruling party had lost the opportunity to address the real issues that ordinary South Africans were dealing with, especially issues of economic policy. “There is no re-evaluation of what is happening in the ANC. The real issues in the ANC are not being discussed.  “There are white people like Kenneth who are used to sneak in neo-liberal policies,” Niehaus said. Niehaus said he was disappointed that the conference had lost an opportunity to discuss the allegations of money laundering that the president was facing. “Phala Phala should have been touched on and dealt with here. It is wrong for Paul Mashatile to say Phala Phala should not be addressed here. It is a serious matter and delegates cannot ignore that,” Niehaus said. He said the step aside rule which has severely divided the ANC was a tool to deal with comrades who were against the capitalistic leadership of Ramaphosa. “There is a law that is put aside for certain people and it does not apply to others. This step aside policy is strange. That so called step aside policy should be thrown out,” Niehaus said. Ramaphosa was expected to close the conference today after mid-day.