The new ANC Gauteng provincial leadership said during its 14th conference that they have reflected on the various challenges which their people face, and challenges they face as an organisation. The conference, which concluded in the early hours of yesterday in Boksburg, Ekurhuleni, was marred with a number of delays but successfully elected additional provincial executive committee members most of which came from the “Adiwele” – the slate of Lebogang Maile, who lost to Panyaza Lesufi in the position of provincial chairperson. “We have recharged ourselves and we are more united. We leave this conference confident that we are stronger than we were before we arrived,” said Lesufi in a statement. The conference was also addressed by the ANC’s national chairperson Gwede  Mantashe. Mantashe emphasised the need for the ANC to take stock of electoral challenges, and called on delegates to approach the conference with the seriousness that it deserved, warning about the dangers of disunity and factionalism. The conference also received a political report from former ANC provincial chairperson David Makhura. His address covered various challenges faced  by the ANC, and highlighted the need to keep a close relationship with the people. Makhura’s report took stock of the extensive work of the government in the province and served as a mechanism to report and account on the achievements and  challenges that the provincial government faces. The conference received the organisational report from the former provincial secretary, Jacob Khawe. “While the organisation faced a setback as far  as the 2021 local government elections, the organisation has been functional and stable. The ANC was able to discharge its responsibilities.  “However, there is a need to strengthen its relationship with the people. The  organisation must oversee and shape the work of government and hold deployees accountable,” Khawe said. The conference also received the treasurer’s report from the former provincial treasurer, Parks Tau. The report paints a picture of an organisation whose finances are healthy and whose financial administration is consistent with global accounting standards. It received unqualified audit opinions for the four years since the 13th provincial conference. “We know that we have to re-earn the trust of the people. We are aware of the mistakes that we have made. Going forward we commit ourselves to strengthening the bonds that link us with our people. We  will continue with the process of the ANC’s renewal. “We will continue to build an ANC that the people want and love. We will build an ANC that is grounded in the day-to-day challenges of the people. Delegates said this is an ANC of humbleness, an ANC of honour, an ANC of ethics. “We are saying we will rebuild the people’s ANC. We will rebuild a trustworthy ANC,” they said. ntombi.nkosi@inl.za QUICK FACTS Provincial office-bearers: Panyaza Lesufi, provincial chairperson; Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko, deputy provincial chairperson; Thembinkosi TK Nciza, provincial secretary; Tasneem Motara, deputy provincial secretary; and Morakane Mosupyoe, provincial treasurer.  Additional members: Dr Bandile Masuku, Lebogang Maile, Mbali Hlope, Dr Nomathemba Mokgethi, Matome Chiloane, Vuyo Mhlakaza, Mzi Khumalo, Paul Mojapelo, Tebogo Letsie, Ntombi Mekgwe, Peace Mabe, Khusela Diko, Kedibone Diale, Nathi Congwane, Nonceba Molwele, Greg Schneemaan, Judith Tshabalala, Joyce Boshomane, Vuyo Mhaga, Lesego Makhubela, Dr Honours Mukhari, Thulani Ndlovu, Bones Modise, Ezra Letswalo, Tshilidzi Munyai, Jane Mananiso, Pretty “Mamkhize” Xaba, Andiswa Mosai, Dr Rebecca Digamela and Gogo Ndlovane.