Siyabonga Sithole Speaker of the National Assembly, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, has declined requests made by leaders of opposition parties, the African Transformation Movement (ATM) and Democratic Alliance (DA), for Parliament to act against President Cyril Ramaphosa on robbery and theft at the president's Phala Phala Farm. The DA had requested the Speaker to set up an ad hoc committee in line with the National Assembly rule 253(1)(b) which allows for such a committee to be established. The ATM had made a request for an impeachment process against  Ramaphosa. In her response against the DA's request, the Speaker argued that rule 253 sets out requirements for establishing an ad hoc committee, one of which is performance of a specific task. Mapisa-Nqakula added that the issues raised by the DA for parliamentary intervention were better suited for attention by existing oversight structures in the National Assembly. On the ATM’s request by its leader, Vuyo Zungula, the Speaker argued that she could not determine which of the listed grounds in section 89 (1) his request relied on saying: “In terms of rule 129(a)1(a)(i)-(iii), the motion must be limited to a clearly formulated and substantiated charge and grounds specified in section 89 of the constitution.” However, in a recent statement, the ATM said its request ticked all the boxes for a section 89 inquiry on confidential transgression, evidence of transgression and National Assembly rule. Responding to the Speaker’s refusal to set up the ad hoc committee, leader of the DA, John Steenhuisen, says the refusal is history repeating itself after the previous Speaker refused to set up a similar committee to investigate former president Jacob Zuma over the Nkandla matter. “In fact this act has shown the nation that Parliament and the Speaker, under the ANC rule, have learned nothing from the nine wasted years in which South Africa lost trillions of rand to corruption and suffered dramatic regression, while our institutions merely stood by and watched. “Similarly, this shows that the Speaker herself has not heeded the recommendations made in the Zondo report, nor questions raised there surrounding Parliament’s paralysis when requests for urgent ad hoc committees were called for at the time,” Steenhuisen said in a statement.