In an effort to bring a gleam of hope and create awareness of the country’s and continent's refugees, the Turquoise Harmony Institute is set to present its award-winning Concert for Refugees 2022 at the Linder Auditorium in Johannesburg on Friday, August 12. With the world mired in insurmountable struggles, the concert speaks to millions of people around the globe who have been forcibly displaced and focuses attention on their shared experiences. The previous Concert for Refugees held in 2020 attracted attention from around the world and inspired countless people through the arts. It was also acknowledged favourably by governments, private organisations, institutions and individuals from different walks of society. This year’s event will headline some of the country’s favourites acts such as Msaki, Sipho ‘Hotstix’ Mabuse, PJ Powers, Thandi Ntuli, Pops Mohamed, Neill Solomon, Rocksteady Dub, Bienvenue Nseka and Lebo Mashile. During the evening, South African composer Neill Solomon’s new song Homeland, produced by JB Arthur at the Flame Studios at Constitution Hill in Johannesburg, will be launched. The concert aims to raise awareness of refugees from around the African continent and around the world and to celebrate those who were able to overcome the challenges. “We want people to think ‘what if I was in their shoes, what would life look like? Could I face the sometimes insurmountable challenges and daily struggles they face?’  “With these concerts our aim is to reframe the refugee experience, shifting the debate away from refugee statistics and refocusing on the attitudes of those who may not be sure who refugees even are, creating connections through common experiences and increased understanding,” said Ayhan Cetin, executive director of the Turquoise Harmony Institute. Through awareness and funds raised, the institute was able to start various projects including the “social and economic integration of refugee women in South Africa” in which French-speaking refugees and migrated women who were forcibly displaced from their home countries were given English classes. Tickets for the show cost R200 and money raised will be used to help refugees in South Africa through respected charities like Gift of the Givers, Three to Six schools, and programmes at the Turquoise Harmony Institute.