ALL roads led to Durban at the Greyville Racecourse this past weekend where Mzansi’s A-listers and horse race lovers immersed themselves in the Durban July experience under the theme “Show me the honey”. The Hollywood Bets Durban July holds up an iconic status with its acclaimed race which does not only command the attention of South Africa but it has gone beyond the borders. This prestigious event is hailed as Africa’s Greatest Horseracing event attracting people from all walks of life. Every year travellers and media from broad make special trips to Durban to enjoy the “July experience” or report on the greatest racing event on the African continent. The Durban July is arguably one of the events that win at capturing the interests of people with its entertainment. The event does not only present horse racing but people get to showcase their extravagant high fashion fits which are in tune with a given theme. We take a look at the best celebrities who pulled all the stops and did justice to the theme “Show the honey”. Renowed actress and DJ Thuli P is enlisted among those who dazzled and understood the assignment with a golden dress. When her photos made it to social media people's jaws practically hit the floor. Her structured gold gown was a true work of art on the DJ who carried it with total confidence. Another who made a statement is Dj Sithelo Shozi who instantly topped trends after revealing her maxi body-hugging dress which she featured with a pixie hairstyle. This year's Big Brother Mzansi Champion Mphowabadimo also pulled through with a yellow sparkling dress. Socials were impressed with the look. Actress Zola Nombona seems to always understand what it is to show up and make a statement. Her look received a nod on social with many hailing her for her beautiful fashion sense. Media personality Minnie Dlamini presented herself in a floral short dress and topped it with a hat impressing fashion critics. These are some of the celebrities who commanded attention on social platforms with their spectacular fashion game. Some received criticism for their outfits which did not make the cut on the list of best dressed. This prestigious event also saw Bonang Matheba on trends on Twitter after many expressed that they would have loved to see her steal the show. It was also easy to identify that some of the favourite celebrities were absent from the event such as Zodwa Wabantu, Pearl Thusi, and DJ Zinhle among others.