The Freedom Front Plus says President Cyril Ramaphosa's renewed call for using broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) as a core mechanism for bringing about economic transformation lacks political capital and reinforces the blame-shifting politics that has become characteristic of a waning ANC government. In opening the inaugural Black Industrialists and Exporters Conference on Wednesday in Sandton, Ramaphosa said, among other things, that legislation must be amended to promote the government's preferential procurement programme to benefit black entrepreneurs. “Ramaphosa's speech was riddled with blame-shifting and completely ignored the destructive consequences of 28 years under a poor ANC government, which has the country's economy teetering on the edge due to state capture, the bankruptcy of public enterprises like Eskom, and the collapse of municipal service delivery, while unemployment is rampant. Sustainable economic growth and empowerment can only be achieved when there is investor confidence in the country and tenders and appointments are made solely on merit,” said FF+ MP and chief spokesperson: Trade, Industry and Competition Jaco Mulder. Mulder said the redistribution of wealth promotes the redistribution of poverty. “The FF+ strives for establishing a multiparty coalition government after the 2024 elections which will be free of the ANC's corruption and blame-shifting. South Africa deserves better than the ANC,” Mulder said. Next year marks 20 years since the promulgation of the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act. “It is undeniable that we have made gains in transforming a skewed, racialised economy. By way of example, in 1994 there were around 150 000 black-owned formal businesses in South Africa. Today there are well over 300 000 black entrepreneurs who own over half of all small businesses in the formal sector,” Ramaphosa said. According to labour force surveys, the number of black managers in the private sector has more than doubled over the past 20 years, from 125 000 in 2002 to over 35 000 today. Ramaphosa said in the public sector, the number has tripled, from 45 000 to 150 000. “As we reflect on this progress, we must also critically examine areas where transformation has been slow and implementation has been weak,” Ramaphosa said. He said over the past six years, the Department of Trade and Industry, the Industrial Development Corporation, the National Empowerment Fund and other agencies have supported approximately 900 black industrialists. Ramaphosa said over the past 11 years, black enterprises have been supported to the value of R55 billion. He said the deliberations from this conference should result in commitments from the private sector to procure more from emerging black businesses and to support their integration into value chains. “They must do this even if it means changing value chains to accommodate black business. Unless tangible, sustainable measures are implemented, we run the risk that empowerment opportunities are confined to black businesses transacting with the state,” Ramaphosa said. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za