SIYABONGA SITHOLE One of the survivors of the mass shooting at Nomzamo tavern in Orlando East, Soweto, says he is still shaken and traumatised by the avalanche of gunshots that rang out in the early hours of Sunday morning after a night out. The survivor who had been watching a football game while enjoying a drink with his friend, says there were at least 40 to 50 people in various parts of the tavern when unknown gunmen stormed in and started shooting at the patrons, 15 of whom were reported dead by Sunday afternoon. "I was there to watch a football game with a friend when I suddenly heard gunshots ring out. I thought maybe this was a robbery and would quickly end, but when I heard more gunshots and this time from what sounded like an AK47 assault rifle, I knew this was not a routine robbery but something else,” one of the survivors told this newspaper on Monday, after a short visit by Police Minister Bheki Cele and other dignitaries. Earlier on, the minister told members of Nomzamo community that more than 137 bullet cartridges were found at the scene of the mass shooting in the tavern where the occupants of a Quantum minibus opened fire on the patrons, killing at least 15 people.  The minister visited the community alongside the National Police Commissioner Lieutenant-General Fannie Masemola and Provincial Commissioner Lieutenant-General Elias Mawela said the police are getting closer to finding the killers behind the mysterious shooting. Cele added that the the killers also used pistols, adding that there were at least five gunmen involved in  the act of terrorism that has sent shockwaves throughout the country and the world. “We are closer to finding the killers behind this shooting… We will not reveal much as the investigation is still ongoing but police found more than 137 cartridges. AK47s and short guns were used by the people responsible for this,” Cele said. The revelations by the minister come just when the Gauteng Legislature’s portfolio committee had issued out a statement calling for the police to leave no corner stone unturned in finding and arresting those responsible for the mass shooting at the tavern.  The chairperson of the committee, Alphina Ndlovana, said “the safety of Soweto hangs in the balance, with the perpetrators still at large”. “The committee believes that the safety of the residents of Gauteng in general is highly compromised while these gunmen roam the streets freely. We call for joint efforts between law enforcement agencies and community safety structures to eradicate violence and crime and to ensure safety within their communities. We also call for the enhancement of security measures at licensed drinking places to deter criminal activities,” she said. Another survivor of the shooting, who was inside the tavern, declined to comment, saying he was not yet ready to talk about the shooting incident, adding that he was tired of reliving it. "I am tired of talking about this. I just can’t do it, please understand,” he told The Star. The first survivor said after the gunmen had left the tavern, he stayed hidden in a corner to make sure that the assailants had really left. One other survivor hid under a table. "This was a scary and traumatic experience which has made me struggle to fall asleep. I wake up in the middle of the night filled with fear,” he said.