Umhlobo Wenene FM co-host, Nomonde Vakalisa, of the Imvuselelo show, who is standing in for co-presenter Reverend Mzukisi Faleni is the subject of death threats. This was revealed by UDM leader and member of Parliament, General Bantu Holomisa, in a letter to the Minister of Communications Khumbudzo Ntshaveni and the SABC chairperson, Bongumusa Makhathini. Holomisa labelled the suspension as unfair after Faleni had, on the basis of being a freelance worker, entered into an agreement with a community radio station, which resulted in his removal from the Umhlobo FM roster. In the letter also addressed to general secretary of Council of Churches, Reverend Mandisi Mpumlwana, Holomisa also highlighted his concerns over death threats against the show's co-host and stand-in presenter, Vakalisa, asking for an intervention in the matter. “Recently, freelance presenter of popular Imvuselelo was seemingly unceremoniously dumped from Umhlobo Wenene FM roster, for what was, according to reports, dubbed by station management... material breach of his freelance contract". “This seemigy happened because Reverend Faleni had entered into some kind of relationship with Zibonele FM, a community radio station in the Western Cape, which he apparently believed at the time he was permitted to do and there was a precedent at the SABC for freelance presenters to do so," Holomisa contends. Holomisa added that he was of the view that community radio stations should be supported which is a value encouraged by the South African government, therefore having an icon such as Reverend Faleni supporting a community radio station was in line with this value and policy. “Nevertheless, the reverend was shown the door under what seems to be harsh circumstances and much to the unhappiness of millions of faithful listeners,” Holomisa said in the letter. On the attack on Vakalisa, Holomisa said the death threats against her were a cause for concern that needed intervention from the public broadcaster and the police. “Umhlobo Wenene then for continuity’s sake had the reverend’s co-host, Nomonde Vakalisa, take over the programme only to allegedly have the life of her son threatened should she continue to present the programme... There is something deeper at play for an existing Imvuselelo co-host to be threatened in such a visceral manner and matters are spiralling out of control,” the UDM leader said.