Joburg mayor Mpho Phalatse has broken her silence about a spy machine that the DA was allegedly using against ANC politicians in the city. In a statement yesterday, Phalatse said she had noted media reports about the spy machine.  She confirmed that the State Security Agency (SSA) was investigating the matter and that the city had furnished the SSA with all relevant information. “I took note of the seriousness of the allegations and my office was in constant contact with the State Security Agency to get them to either confirm the allegations or otherwise indicate that the equipment being used was being done so lawfully. To date we are waiting for their report,” Phalatse said. Despite this Phalatse also said some of the allegations levelled against the city’s anti-corruption unit and its former head Shadrack Sibiya were false. “I have taken note of recent media articles that published allegations of protection afforded to the former head of the City of Joburg Group Forensic and Investigation Services (GFIS). These allegations are scurrilous and devoid of truth,” Phalatse said. GFIS and the city have been under a dark cloud over allegations that Sibiya had been hired irregularly and over allegations of the anti-corruption unit being used against opposition parties.  The anti-corruption unit was a mayoral project when (Herman) Mashaba was mayor.  Phalatse said there were allegations that the anti-corruption unit was a creation of a city official who was under investigation. “Phalatse said she would not be commenting further on these allegations until the SSA completes its investigation. She said the city would also be running its own investigations. “The new acting city manager has assigned independent investigators to test the veracity of the allegations in respect of the equipment being used. This is in parallel the long awaited SSA report,” Phalatse said. Meanwhile, opposition parties said they did not feel comfortable using their cellphones and other gadgets in the city council chambers.  The spy machine was allegedly purchased when Mashaba was DA mayor in the city. Opposition parties claim the machine is able to hack phones and other devices. Initially Phalatse had denied any knowledge of the machine.