Tributes continue to pour in amid the passing of ANC deputy secretary-general Yasmin “Jessie” Duarte who died in the early hours of Sunday. Duarte died at the age of 68, she was undergoing treatment for cancer, and was on medical leave since November 2021. Different political parties sent their condolences. Many described her as a fearless leader. Duarte became actively involved in politics at a younger age and developed a reputation as an activist and an advocate for equality over the years.  She worked closely with Albertina Sisulu to establish women’s structures throughout the country, while serving as the provincial secretary of the Federation of Transvaal Women (Fedsaw), which was a UDF affiliate. Duarte earned her stripes in the MDM, from her days as a youth activist, swelling the ranks of the MDM where she led the ANC in Gauteng as a PEC member and the first Gauteng MEC of Safety and Security in 1994.  She further served the ANC to the higher echelons when she was elected deputy secretary-general of the ANC at the 53rd National Conference in Mangaung in December 2012, a position she was re-elected to at the ANC’s 54th National Conference in NASREC in 2017. Former president Jacob Zuma conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the Duarte family, friends and to the ANC . The Jacob Zuma Foundation’s spokesperson Mzwanele Manyi said: “Zuma says his relationship with Duarte goes a long way. A special tribute to reflect on their mutual respect and comradeship will soon be issued.” The ANC in Greater Joburg sends its heartfelt condolences to the Duarte, Dangor, and Whitley families, the ANC, her comrades, friends, the Mass Democratic Movement and the people of South Africa during this difficult period.  “May her soul rest in peace. Duarte is a colossal giant whose track record in the struggle is unparalleled, and a human rights activist and leader of absolute conviction to the cause.,” said ANC greater Joburg spokesperson and regional secretary Sasabona Manganye. He said Duarte is what the ANC sought for when they called for the “Decade of the Cadre” at the Mangaung conference; a cadre of stoical discipline who lived amongst her people and spoke their language. “She further served the country in government, where she upheld the highest discipline and became an outstanding public servant. “Duarte is a colossal giant whose track record in the struggle is unparalleled, and a human rights activist and leader of absolute conviction to the cause.  “Her life was a tribute to the marginalised women of our country who have today assumed their rightful place in the forefront of the struggle.  “We celebrate her life as one decorated with full service to humanity. To this end,” Manganye said The EFF said the ANC has lost a committed member, and the EFF sent its condolences to them. “Duarte was a fierce, firm and forthright individual who paid her dues the struggle for liberation in South Africa.  “She was passionate about gender-equality, and fighting against forms of sexism and patriarchy.  “Duarte will be remembered fondly by many young men and women, who passed through her hands and grew through her guidance.  “May comrade Duarte rest In perfect peace,” said EFF spokesperson Sinawo Thambo. COPE national spokesperson Dennis Bloem said the loss of Duarte was not only a loss to the ANC but to the entire country. “Comrade Duarte was always on the forefront in a fight against apartheid.  “She was there when we were launching the UDF.  “She was a hard worker and a very dedicated person and a person of principle,” Bloem said. “The passing of comrade Duarte is a great loss, not only to the family, but to the democratic movement and the country as a whole.  “As a committed internationalist and former diplomat, not only will she be mourned by South Africa, but by colleagues and comrades on the African continent and in the international progressive movement,” said ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe. The Nelson Mandela Foundation CEO Sello Hatang also said the loss of Duarte is the loss to South Africa. “To the family, your loss is a South African loss, she was a great leader,” Hatang said. South Africans also took to different social media platforms expressing their condolences. According to Muslim rites, Duarte will be buried this afternoon at Westpark Cemetery, Johannesburg. Duarte’s brother, Moosa Dangor, on his social media page wrote: “Allah Ta’ALA has recalled the greatest woman I’ve known and loved all my life – Yasmin Jessie Duarte farewell our sister.” At the time of her passing, Duarte was serving as Deputy Secretary General of the ANC since 2012 and a member of its National Executive Committee since 2002. Duarte is survived by her children, grandchildren, siblings, and extended family. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za