A few months ago, Basadi In Music Awards was launched giving a platform to honour women from all walks of life in their career endeavours. While the nominees list boasts women that are not only dominating the music arena but other industries as well, The Star’s entertainment journalist Kedibone Modise has also been nominated among others in the journalist of the year category. Also announced was the prestigious CEO’s Mosadi in Business Achievement Award; the honour will be bestowed on a selected few in recognition of their successes in business. DBN Gogo is up for Artist of the Year, DJ of the Year and Song of the Year for Bambelela; while Pabi Cooper earned nods in SAMPRA Amapiano Artist of the Year, Artist of the Year and Song of the Year for Banyana ke Bafana. Nomfundo Moh is nominated in Kaya959 Afropop Artist of the Year, Artist of the Year and Song of the Year for Phakade Lami. Taking two nominations, Makhadzi is in the running for Artist of the Year and Song of the Year for Ghanama, so is Lerato Kganyago in the DJ of the Year and Entertainment Radio Presenter categories. She will also be honoured with the CEO’s Mosadi in Business Achievement Award. Simmy also walked away with two nominations for Artist of the Year and Sofnfree Dance Artist of the Year while Chairo is nodded in Gospel Artist of the Year and Newcomer of the Year categories. Skye Wanda is up for the Songwriter of the Year and Kaya959 Afropop Artist of the Year and Jamie Lee Sexton is nominated in the Pop Artist of the Year and Songwriter of the Year categories. DJ Zinhle is in the running for DJ of the Year category and will receive the CEO’s Mosadi in Business Achievement Award. The categories for Kontemporêre Kunstenaar van die Jaar, Music Video Director of the Year, Gqom Artist of the Year and Kwaito Artist of the Year  were abandoned because they did not receive any votes. Managing director at Kaya 959, Sibongile Mtyali, congratulated all nominees. “Kaya 959 is proud to sponsor the Afro-pop category for the first annual Basadi in Music awards. To be a part of an event that honours women in their endeavours is truly a pleasure. Congratulations to all the nominees who continue to break boundaries in this often male-dominated industry, embrace their power through the music and entertain us every day.” To vote for your favourite nominee; SMS the category code and nominee name to 49960. Each SMS is at a cost of R2 with no limit to the number of times the public can vote for their favourites. Closing date is July 31 midnight. Terms and conditions apply.