SIYABONGA SITHOLE ACCORDING to ousted ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule, the problems of the party began before the 54th Nasrec ANC national conference 2017, with the recalling of former president Jacob Zuma in March 2018 being the final nail in the coffin.  Magashule, who was ousted due to the ANC’s step aside policy, was speaking on Power 987 in an hour-long interview on Tuesday. “My problems started as we were moving towards the Nasrec National Conference. They started there and we only learnt when we were at Nasrec that the judiciary behaves in this way. If you look at what happened during those months towards Nasrec, you could find judgments simultaneously throughout the country and we did not actually understand.  “That is why some believe that some and not all the judges are captured. What we did not know is that money plays a bigger role and we should have done what we did at Polokwane conference. We should have demanded a manual counting because even now such things happen,” Magashule said. Asked if manual counting of votes at the Nasrec conference was done, things would have changed, the former Free State premier said he believed so because most of the contented top six positions excluding that of his deputy, Jessie Duarte were closely contested and numbers would have changed. “That is what I think. Well we can’t complain about it because as a collective, we decided to move on. But I am sure one day we will flash back and people can tell you better what happened at Nasrec. Nevertheless, we come from that school of thought which says, once branches have spoken, it is okay let us move together and we thought that because we were indeed completely divided. There is no leader of the ANC today, who can say we were not divided,” Magashule said. When it comes to his position as secretary-general and being removed through the step aside rule, Magashule says the writing was on the wall for him three months into the collective top six leadership elected following the Nasrec conference. “Well, I knew and it was supposed to happen three months after Nasrec in March 2018. The intention was to ensure that by March, I am not there as the SG. By that time President Zuma will not be there because the agreement between President Zuma and President Ramaphosa was that he would stay until June for the Brics Summit so that Zuma can introduce President Ramaphosa to the Brics leadership. It did not happen because the factions were highly intense,” he said. Magashule further stated following the removal of Zuma, the former president blamed the ANC leaders for not being credible enough to honour the previous agreement to let him stay until after the Brics Summit. “That is when President Zuma was blaming us for not being credible leadership myself and the president had met and agreed ... If you remember when I was in Cape Town, there was a press conference ... and the meeting was cordial ... But that was not to be because a few days or few weeks after that people started demanding that President Zuma should step aside,” Magashule said. Magashule who prides himself of having been part of the ANC NEC since its unbanning and saw all the ANC leaders since 1994 says Zuma was against the recalling of Thabo Mbeki in the middle of his term as the president of the country which he said set a bad precedent for the ANC. “Maybe we started a practice which President Zuma was against when President Mbeki was removed ... Zuma is not Ace Magashule. He is an important leader in the ANC and we come from the school where leadership is respected,” the former Free State premier said.