Siyabonga Sithole Police are still combing the scene of a mass shooting at Nomzamo tavern where 13 people were shot dead by unknown assailants in the early hours of Sunday.  Neighbours and community members at the scene are refusing to openly speak to the media following the shooting that has been described by MEC for Public Safety, Faith Mazibuko, as a "massacre". Mazibuko has called on the community to help police bring the  assailants at Nomazamo Tavern in Orlando East where the 13 people died to book. "We are calling on the community to help the police with information that will lead to the arrest of the people whose Quantum shot at the people at this establishment.  “Indeed we are saddened by this incident as the victims of this shooting are parents and some of them are children who have lost their lives in such a manner.  “This was a licensed establishment and it is sad that people died while trying to enjoy themselves. We can't say anything against this establishment as it is licensed and was operating within its operating hours.  “When we talk about township economy such establishments are central to this economy. It is however sad to have something like this happen," Mazibuko said. Police Commissioner Elias Mawela said Gauteng is now becoming like KwaZulu-Natal where murder rates and violent crimes are increasing. "Indeed Gauteng is now coming to be an area highly affected by a high incidence of violent crimes. This is concerning as previously Gauteng was not known to be home to violent crimes but that now is changing," Mawela said. The MEC said it is a serious problem as guns are being commonly used. "Guns are now a serious problems. We now shrink when we hear guns being fired. Ordinarily people with gun licences do not use their guns carelessly as they use them to protect their families.  “We need to put a stop to guns. Even hostel dwellers who are known for guns are becoming afraid themselves.  We call on communities to assist in fighting crime and violent crimes in our townships, "Mazibuko said.