SIYABONGA SITHOLE With less than nine days left before the 100 days in office celebrations, leader of the Patriotic Alliance and mayor of Central Karoo Gayton McKenzie has read the riot act to unpatriotic leaders. The businessman-turned-politician was speaking to his followers and members of his team in a Facebook Live address on Sunday evening. McKenzie also took time to pay tribute to ANC stalwart and deputy secretary of the ANC, Jessie Duarte, who died on Sunday morning, adding that Duarte was great national leader who respected everyone regardless of their political affiliation. “Jessie Duarte was a great national leader who respected everyone. She had humility and treated everyone with respect and may her soul rest in peace,” McKenzie said. McKenzie said the PA was working hard at realising its vision for 2024 and had a plan to achieve its target of becoming a leading political party not only in the Central Karoo, but across the country, and would not tolerate members of the party who did not work hard towards this vision. “We are aiming for 2024. We have a plan and a master plan as leaders of Patriotic Alliance. Our vision is the people and how we treat people is important. Being a Shoprite employee has better job security than being a mayor, a councillor or MMC or deployee of the PA because we do not tolerate leaders who do not service the people we serve,” he said. McKenzie said some of the councils have not recruited new members while others have not held meetings with members of the communities but expected to be kept as leaders and deployees of the party, adding that such leaders would not be tolerated. “We are not afraid to remove people. We have removed at least eight councillors in the past and are not scared to lose other councillors who fail to do their jobs. It does not work like that here, because some of you have forgotten about the people. You can’t protect your salary while our people suffer. What kind of councillor are you if all you are interested in is your salary?” he said. McKenzie, who has been praised for breathing life into Beaufort West with a series of projects and programmes aimed at eradicating poverty and creating jobs, said in the coming weeks the PA would reshuffle its deployees in a bid to get the party going towards its vision for 2024. “A reshuffle is on the agenda. There is going to be a reshuffle soon enough. Some of you make excuses about going to church as if we are sinners. We will release you and give you a chance to go to church. If you do not care about the people, you do not belong to the PA,” he said.