Johannesburg - The disturbing outbreak of criminal activities has stirred deep concerns about the safety of people in South Africa, forcing them to take a closer look at this challenge. Videos going viral on social media platforms have been providing a detailed picture of what it means to be a South African citizen and all the perils you are most likely to encounter daily, irrespective of who you are. This has also brought home a chilling reality that no one can be certain that they are safe, anywhere, even at one of the nation’s most unifying gatherings. In February, IOL reported on a police officer in an SAPS vehicle with blue lights who allegedly stormed the Thembisa Hospital premises before shooting a nurse alleged to be his girlfriend. Nurses from Thembisa were left fearful and many started asking, “Who’s next?” Although Gauteng Health MEC Nomathemba Mokgethi reassured the nurses at the health facility, there is no guarantee a similar attack won’t happen again. “Our hospitals are safe. It is a safe place you can find yourself in. It’s just that this situation is an isolated situation and nobody could have suspected it,” Mokgethi said. With South Africa already confronted by compounding ills such as high unemployment, rocketing petrol prices, lack of service delivery, corruption, self-enriching leaders and kidnappings, concern for one’s safety has been added to the towering list. Many have questioned whether the lack of action against criminals has resulted in wrongdoers believing that their actions are condoned, or whether citizens have simply grown tired of trying because there is a lack of support from those higher up in the hierarchy. Calls are growing for law enforcement to take stringent measures. It has been frightening for citizens to learn that places that were once considered safe have become a hub of crime where culprits do what they do best unapologetically. This has for a long time raised questions about law enforcement, which is supposed to be at the helm of combating life-threatening ills. The Star recently reported on an incident that happened in broad daylight where an old man was seen fighting off robbers trying to attack him outside his car. The video caught people’s attention as those nearby chose to film the ordeal rather than assist. These incidents are a drop in the ocean of the safety troubles the country is faced with, be it at school, in shopping malls, on the streets, at banks, at restaurants, at police stations, or anywhere else. The Star