President Cyril Ramaphosa said South Africa should not have to endure a shortage of electricity given the skills and resources at the country’s disposal. This contradicts Eskom CEO Andre de Ruyter’s recent assertion the utility had a skills shortage to maintain its plants. Ramaphosa made the remarks in his weekly letter to South Africans on Monday, as the country continued rolling blackouts. “There is no reason why a country like ours with the skills, capabilities and resources we have at our disposal, should have to endure a shortage of electricity,” Ramaphosa said.. Two weeks ago Eskom, for the second time in history, implemented stage 6 load shedding, which negatively affected the economy and lives of South Africans. Eskom blamed industrial action by its workers for  plunging the country into stage 6 load shedding. Ramaphosa said while the blackouts appeared to be worsening, the reality was that everything was being done to address the shortfall in electricity supply. He also announced additional measures to ensure a stable electricity supply . “Over the past two weeks, we have been working with the relevant ministers and senior officials on a range of additional measures to accelerate all efforts to increase our electricity supply. The message is clear: this is no time for business as usual. We need to act boldly to make load shedding a thing of the past,” he said. Ramaphosa said the details and consultations to address the electricity crisis were being finalised. “We will then, in the coming days, be able to announce a comprehensive set of actions to achieve much faster progress in tackling load shedding. “There are no easy solutions to our electricity crisis. But we are committed and determined to explore every avenue and use every opportunity to ensure that we generate enough electricity to meet the country’s needs,” Ramaphosa said. Addressing the media virtually on Monday, De Ruyter said Eskom would continue with another round of rolling blackouts this week, due to a shortfall in generation capacity and an unreliable power grid. “The risk remains high, the system is unreliable and unpredictable, this is why we are currently in load shedding stage 4. We have a shortfall in generation capacity. We have to maintain a reserve margin and as a consequence we… unfortunately have to approach load shedding. For tonight we will continue stage 4 load shedding until midnight. We will drop two steps from midnight to load shedding stage 2 until 5am,” De Ruyter said. He said from Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday they will continue with stage 4, and by Friday they hoped to move to lower stages. ntombi.nkosi#inl.co.za .