The popular and much-loved media personality Anele Mdoda has been announced as the host of the Miss South Africa 2022 finale set to take place on Saturday, August 13, at the SunBet Arena at Time Square, Pretoria. Mdoda is not new to Miss SA as she has been in the judges hot seat five times and last year stood as a co-host alongside “Survivor SA” presenter Nico Panagio. The multi-award-winning radio host has been associated with the pageant since 2013 and has shown an affinity for it. After taking place in Cape Town for the past two years, Miss South Africa returns to Gauteng this year with the 2022 winner set to be crowned at Sun International’s flagship venue, the SunBet Arena at Time Square, Pretoria. The finale, which promises to be an entertainment-packed show, fittingly takes place during Women’s Month. “I'm very excited that we are back to a full capacity arena, because a packed arena suits my energy levels and always motivates me to work just that little bit harder to ensure that everyone has a good time and really enjoys the evening.” Mdoda’s advice to this year’s top 10 finalists is for them to have fun and “be in the moment”. She added: “They should not worry about what they think they look like or whether they answered a question correctly or if something happens to their hair or their dress when they’re on stage. No one cares. If they are having a good time, everybody else is having a good time.” Shirley Adonisi, director of Local Entertainment Channels, commented on Mdoda’s role as a host. “Mzansi Magic, as the official broadcaster and simulcast on M-Net, is pleased to bring Miss South Africa 2022 to our customers and with Anele Mdoda as host. We have faith in her ability to keep our audiences engaged and entertained,” said Adonisi. “Miss South Africa is a platform for showcasing women’s empowerment, diversity, intelligence and leadership which resonates with our purpose as Mzansi Magic as well as our audience,” she said. Miss South Africa 2022 will be broadcast live on Mzansi Magic (DStv Channel 161) and M-Net (DStv Channel 101) on Saturday, August 13, from 6.30pm and streamed for an international audience on the Miss South Africa app. Tickets for the pageant can be bought via the Miss South Africa app and website as well as from Ticketmaster. General access tickets cost from R250 to R450 while VIP tickets are R1 500 and include a glamorous red-carpet and pre-event celebration.