South African Revenue Service (Sars) employees downed tools yesterday following a breakdown in wage negotiations between unions and the revenue service. National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) said workers had put on hold a national strike with hopes that the Sars management would negotiate in good faith.  The union’s spokesperson, Lwazi Nkolonzi, said workers had no choice but to down tools.  The union has accused Sars of reneging on a previous wage agreement. Workers were also demanding inflation plus 7% but Sars was offering an increase of 1.39%. Nehawu said workers deserved a fair increase because Sars had recorded a successful collection season. Nkolonzi said workers had basic needs and expenses like other South Africans. “We had embarked on a strike in May and what happens then is that the employer said let’s start engagements, so we engaged with Sars, hoping that something would come up, only to be disappointed and back to square one with Sars adamant that they are going to offer us a salary increase of 1.39%.“  Nkolonzi said workers rejected the 1.39%. “Our members resolved that we should go on a full-blown national strike,” he said.  He added that Sars and union representatives had failed to come to an understanding despite mediation from the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA). “In fact, Sars was so arrogant when we got to the CCMA that they bluntly told us that they are offering us 0% increment and the CCMA found that the situation had reached a deadlock and they issued a certificate for a strike.” Nkolonzi said Sars workers would be picketing outside Sars branches with further plans to have marches in several cities. “Sars has not been willing to come to the table and we have had an open door policy with them,” Nkolonzi said. Among the list of demands was full and equal medical medical aid and housing allowances for all employees; an introduction of pandemic leave of 10 working days a year; and an annual adjustment upwards in the applicable pay band of 1.5% where the employee had met the required performance standard. “With negotiations it's a give and take situation. They are not willing to budge on any of our demands. We were saying that Sars should give a token of appreciation to our members for the sterling work that they have done over the last financial year and Sars had recorded a revenue collection of R1.5 trillion and Sars was not willing to budge on that,” Nkolonzi said. Experts said should the strike continue, it had the potential to impact the country’s revenue collection and government spend on service delivery. Economist Makwe Masilela said the strike would have an impact on essential services. He said if Sars workers were on strike, revenue collection could not be done. “For those taxes to be collected this means someone has to be sitting on a desk doing the collection. If this is not done it means the government's source of income will be low already. The economy is struggling and the government deficit has ballooned from the previous year. This shows you that we are spending more than what we are collecting,” Makwe said.