Award- winning storyteller and broadcaster Nontobeko Sibisi is brimming with pride after securing a spot at the coveted 15th edition of Talents Durban, set to take place from July 22 to 31. Out of thousands of hopefuls vying to be part of Talents Durban from across the globe, only seven documentary projects were chosen. They include Togo, Tunisia, Egypt, Nigeria and Uganda. Sibisi is among 27 participants from across Africa selected to take part in the film-making programme. She is representing South Africa in this year’s cohort alongside film producer and director Gabriella Blumberg. Talents Durban is an initiative of The Berlin International Film Festival and is part of six international initiatives of Berlinale Talents. Sibisi expressed gratitude at the opportunity afforded her. “I’m so excited and grateful to be part of such an amazing opportunity. I cannot begin to explain what it feels like to have access to some of the best film-makers in the industry and have them offer crucial advice in your film directing journey,” said Sibisi. She also spoke about her commitment to African arts. “I’m really passionate about African arts, culture, history, heritage and indigenous knowledge, and how we can story-tell and, in the process, archive our narratives in re-imagined ways.” The general manager of the Durban FilmMart Institute, Magdalene Reddy, commented: “Now in its 15th year, the 2022 edition of Talents Durban will bring together creatives from across the continent whose work not only inspires but challenges industry norms.  “These bold young voices are the future of film in Africa,” she said. The elected participants will receive mentorship and guidance from industry-leading film-makers such as South African director and producer Sara Blecher, who was behind Netflix’s Senzo Meyiwa documentary series, Safta-winning film-maker and film professional Nadine Cloete as well as Bongi Ndaba, South African TV writer and producer for much-loved shows such as eHostela, The Estate, and Gaz’lam.  They will also receive mentorship from Mohamed Siam, a member of The Academy-The Oscars, who is a fiction and documentary film-maker.