The City of Joburg has commended the Johannesburg SPCA’s proactive approach to fund-raise for its high water bill, but said it was not in the position to offer debt relief, or a debt write-off. In June, the Johannesburg SPCA (JSPCA) started a fund-raising campaign asking for assistance to pay for its large water bill, which stood at R545 203.36. “At first we thought it was a huge mistake, but after numerous phone calls and visits to the municipality, it transpired that the JSPCA would, indeed, be responsible for the full amount,” the non-profit organisation said. JSPCA said a leak detection company conducted investigations and confirmed a huge burst pipe under its property, spewing out thousands of litres of water. The city added that investigations by Joburg Water technical teams ruled out the possibility of a fault with the water meter or city infrastructure providing water to the property. “We were not aware of this leak, as it is in the old Joburg Water pipes deep under the ground. Our insurance company is not able to help us, nor is Joburg Water, even though we are an NPO (and the JSPCA has been on the current property for almost over 20 years),” the organisation said. The city confirmed that the NPO pleaded for debt relief due to it being oblivious to an underground water leak.  “However, according to the City’s bylaw (Chapter 2, section 34), customers are solely responsible for any water wastage on their premises. Because business customers are billed on sewer according to their water use, reversals (of) excess sewer usage billing cannot be done,” Finance MMC Julie Suddaby and acting Environment and Infrastructure Services MMC Belinda Echeozonjoku said in a joint statement on Wednesday. The MMCs added that the city offered payment arrangements to consumers to manage their municipal bills, but it remained their responsibility to not only control their usage but also monitor any infrastructure faults within their property. “The City of Joburg is not in the position to offer debt relief, or a debt write-off based on the NPO status of the organisation. However, we propose to the Johannesburg SPCA, as we do with all our customers who have similar issues, that they approach our revenue department to enter into an Acknowledgement of Debt (AOD), an option to be entered into as part of a payment plan with specific terms manageable by the Johannesburg SPCA,” Suddaby and Echeozonjoku said. The city added that it acknowledged that the Johannesburg SPCA is a diligent payer of its municipal account and commended its proactive approach to addressing its issues. Meanwhile, JSPCA said on July 15 that it was not in a position to pay legal fees to fight the matter in the courts, unless someone was willing to do the work on a pro bono basis. “We also cannot afford to pay off the bill(s) over a protracted period, as the interest is astronomical. We therefore continue to appeal for donations to help us foot the bill,” the organisation said.  By July 15, JSPCA said it had raised R61 222.29 but still needed R483 981.07. @Chulu_M