While most celebrities often decide to shun the popular celeb gossip blogger dubbed Musa Khawula and his rigorous posts, media personality Lerato Kganyago fired back revealing startling information about the blogger. This stemmed from a post with Khawula sharing a picture of Kganyago dressed up for the Durban July which he captioned,  ”Bonang Lite”. He further made claims that Kganyago has always been Bonang Lite after pursuing several job titles that are the same as that of  Matheba. “Remember when Bonang was at live amp guess who took her job right after? Do you also remember when Bonang left her job on Metro FM doing the bridge? Babes guess who took the job? Guess who will replace Bonang at any other job that she leaves. Bo and lite. Xo Xo. Gossip girl.” The media personality responded to the tweet claiming she is open to criticism but not disrespect. “Criticise but don't disrespect me @MusaKhawula many years I let you slide with your bullying and you know Who had sent you. You've got criminal charges from 2013 of Drug trafficking, robbery, you’ve been convicted (Just to name a few) deal with.” She continued and said, “Your 2 ID numbers won't hide who you are! Tweet Vile things about people from your grandmother's back room, KZN isn't as big as you think. You and your celeb friend tried to make my life uncomfortable, and I told you I would get you. “I will unravel you and every journalist that's feeding you information about people. I bother no one. Make your point don't disrespect @ MusaKhawula have a blessed Sunday,” shared Kganyago. The rise of the popular Twitter gossip account named Musa Khawula has set social media ablaze in the past few months. With everyone eager to know which scoop will be shared publicly,  in a matter of months his account has amassed scores of followers. Though his presence has been entertaining to other people, most of the celebrities’ lives have not had it easy, particularly having to constantly defend their names from claims that are mostly revealed as unfounded and false. Each day is shrouded in suspense with many wondering what bomb is he going to drop or which famous individuals are going to be involved.