The well-renowned Miss Heritage Global beauty pageant which focuses on promoting global diverse heritage is set to take place on September 24, 2022, a day that South Africa celebrates as Heritage Day. With South Africa chosen as a host this year, women from other parts of the world will travel to the culturally rich province of Limpopo at Kalahari waterfront Nandoni, where this prestigious event will take place. Miss Heritage Global creates culture ambassadors out of beauty queens from the ages of 18 to 28 from different cultures and backgrounds, bringing them together to learn about the culture of the host country.  Miss Heritage South Africa Zabelo Hlabisa has shared her excitement about being the host Queen and added that she is looking forward to teaching the rest of the queens about South Africa’s heritage. Miss Heritage Global co-founder Ronald Tisauke said he hopes this pageant will help create jobs by engaging with different communities from different backgrounds to participate in the event. “We are not just trying to be internationally recognised but the point of this pageant is to also help marginalised communities and reshape their destiny if possible, so a part of it is to also try to identify the gaps within societies and help where we can through the pageant,” he said The Miss Heritage Global team further pointed out that to have beauty queens showcase their heritage on one stage would also highlight why being united was essential. Miss Heritage Global’s Angela Skomolo said contestants from other countries would also get understand the South Africa’s history. “South Africa is well-known for its diversity and the contestants will have a chance to tour some parts of South Africa to get a better understanding of the history of the country.” The pageant is an edutainment presentation that not only entertains but also educates on global heritage and diversity, helping to embrace culture and diversity globally. Countries including Japan, France, USA, UK, Canada, Ghana, Zimbabwe and several other African countries are set to take part in the pageantry.