A non-profit organisation is putting their lives on the line by attempting to summit Mount Kilimanjaro to raise awareness and alleviate the problems the South African deaf community faces. Nolan Pillay, one of the directors of the Be the Best Version of Yourself Foundation told The Star that he had been involved with the deaf community since 2019 and this had led him to start raising awareness of the challenges faced by the deaf. “I realised that deaf people feel isolated in a way from hearing people. It's not that hearing people don’t want to communicate with them, it’s more that they don’t know how to communicate with them. We want to bridge this gap,” Pillay said. Next month the foundation’s team of hikers, in an initiative supported by Miss, Mr, and Mrs Deaf South Africa (MDSA) and the Foundation for Children with Hearing Loss in Southern Africa, will climb Kilimanjaro, the highest mountain in Africa, to raise funds and give the gift of hearing to a child. “We are taking five deaf people, who used to be Miss, Mr, and Mrs Deaf South Africa  with two hearing climbers. The reason why we have a split like this is because we want to bridge the gap between the hearing community and the deaf community,” Pillay said. He added that the foundation wanted to bridge the gap to make the hearing community see that deaf people were also members of society and should be treated equally. The climb is expected to take place from August 21 – 28 and the idea is to summit before the MDSA 2022 Pageant and International Deaf Awareness month in September. The foundation said that it had selected MDSA and the Foundation for Children with Hearing Loss as the benefactor of the funds raised which will help to support their initiatives to bridge the gap between the hearing and deaf communities, provide cochlear implants for children born deaf, related therapy, and lifelong support and hearing aids for qualifying children. Pillay said the foundation had been fundraising for about seven months to meet the costs of the summit attempt and collect money that would be donated. He said the initiative had received a R100 000 donation and that R50 000 would be used for implants and hearing aids and the balance would go towards workshops. “When we come back we will use some of the funds to have workshops to get hearing and deaf people to work together,” he said. @Chulu_M