A South African student has been named in the top 50 shortlist for an annual $100 000 (R1.6 million) award that recognises the achievements of young change-makers from around the world. Iziphozonke Mlambo, 19, from Newcastle, KwaZulu-Natal, was included in the top 50 shortlist for the Chegg.org Global Student Prize 2022, a $100 000 award to be given to a student who has made a real impact on learning, the lives of his/her peers and on society.  The student, who is currently studying Human Biology at Biola University in California, US, was selected from almost 7 000 nominations and applications from 150 countries. The award was established to create a new platform that shines a light on the efforts of students everywhere who are reshaping the world for the better. Last year’s winner was Jeremiah Thoronka, a 21-year-old student from Sierra Leone who launched a start-up called Optim Energy that transforms vibrations from vehicles and pedestrian footfall on roads into an electric current. Mlambo is the co-founder and vice-president of Science Buddies, a non-profit organisation that nurtures young scientists by providing them with the opportunity to participate in global science fairs and competitions while giving them access to professional mentors. To date, the organisation has reached more than 100 learners from different backgrounds, connected them to more than 50 mentors, and partnered with more than 15 science fairs, societies and competitions worldwide. The student also launched a non-profit, The Rising Stars Foundation, which focuses on developing youth and is currently focusing on students with university and bursary applications. “Now, more than ever, students like Iziphozonke deserve to have their stories told and have their voices heard. After all, we need to harness their dreams, their insights, and their creativity to tackle the daunting and urgent challenges facing our world,” said Chegg CEO Dan Rosensweig. Rosensweig added that the award finalists this year made a huge impact in areas such as the environment, equality and justice, health and well-being, education and skills, youth empowerment and ending poverty. “I extend my warmest congratulations to Iziphozonke. His story is a testament to the crucial role that education plays in building a better tomorrow for us all. It is the key to solving humanity’s greatest challenges, from war and conflict to climate change to growing inequality, ” said Sunny Varkey, the founder of the Varkey Foundation. The top 10 finalists of the Global Student Prize are expected to be announced in August this year. The organisations added that the winner, who will be announced later in the year, will be chosen from the top 10 finalists by the Global Student Prize Academy, which is made up of prominent individuals. @Chulu_M