After more than a decade of hard work and determination, Lehlogonolo Emmanuel, fondly known as Sean Ego, shares his dream of taking things a notch up in his music career and cementing himself as an artist and a songwriter in the entertainment industry. It is every artist's dream to amass international recognition and with many South African talents getting acclaimed beyond South Africa borders, Sean Ego does not want to be left behind. He details that though he had an affinity for music, growing up, he never thought he would be an artist. It took hearing a song by the late American artist Tupac Shakur, and that was when he saw he had all the potential to be a hip hop star. Sean Ego retraces to the year 2016 when he recorded his first single, “Lahla”, which gave him the opportunity to meet with other music heavyweights. “My first single dropped in 2016, followed by ”Mthebelele“ as the second single. I went on  to drop an EP called “Yonke into imthebelele”, which means everything is good. The EP introduced me to the game and I got to be on Metro FM with Oskido and YFM with DJ Speedsta.” said Sean Ego The Soweto-born talent further mentioned several performances as one of his highlights since he started as an artist. “Performing at the African Hair awards which aired on ‘Top Billing’. Being on the rap activity jam hosted by Oskido (Metro FM). Being on the hip hop floor hosted by DJ Speedsta and DJ Zandy (YFM). Nominated for the 011 awards twice.” he said Asked about what he wants to be known for as an artist, the rapper said his ultimate goal was to be known as a great artist and also take his music to the world. “I want be to known for being a great songwriter, a producer  and an amazing musician. Taking the music industry by storm and cementing my name as an artist and songwriter. I want to take my music worldwide and further as possible.” said Sean Ego The rapper has a single titled “Kuzobalit” which is currently playing on radio and is set to drop his EP project titled “R.A.P.”