ANC deputy secretary general Yasmin “Jessie” Duarte was buried in a special official funeral service yesterday afternoon. Duarte, 68, passed away in the early hours yesterday after battling with cancer for eight months. She was buried at Westpark Cemetery in Johannesburg. She was undergoing treatment for cancer, and was on medical leave since November 2021. Duarte became actively involved in politics at a younger age and developed a reputation as an activist and an advocate for equality over the years. She worked closely with the late Struggle stalwart Albertina Sisulu to establish women’s structures throughout the country, while serving as the provincial secretary of the Federation of Transvaal Women, which was a United Democratic Front affiliate. At the time of her passing, Duarte was serving as deputy secretary-general of the ANC since 2012 and a member of its National Executive Committee since 2002. Duarte earned her stripes in the mass democratic movement, from her days as a youth activist, swelling the ranks of the movement where she led the ANC in Gauteng as a Provincial Executive Committee member and the first Gauteng Safety and Security member of the executive committee in 1994. She further served the ANC in the higher echelons when she was elected deputy secretary-general of the ANC at the 53rd national conference in Mangaung in December 2012, a position she was re-elected to at the ANC’s 54th national conference at Nasrec in 2017. Delivering a eulogy at the funeral, President Cyril Ramaphosa said Duarte was gracious, compassionate and always kind, adding that she was always there, teaching, organising, and mobilising. Ramaphosa said Duarte’s sympathies for the poor, the vulnerable, the destitute and the marginalised ran deep. “She had empathy and was able to walk in other people’s shoes and see through their eyes. It is this that enabled her to see the suffering of our people and empathise with them.  “She took up their cause and stood firm on her principles, even when her stance attracted criticism or personal attack. She was a champion of the oppressed everywhere,” Ramaphosa said. He said she will forever be remembered for her commitment to the cause of the Palestinian people and to keeping the issue alive in the minds of the South African people. “She had great courage. She was at the forefront of the fight against the apartheid state at the height of its cruel and oppressive rule. “Who can forget the power of her intervention during the inquest into the death of Ahmed Timol five years ago, when she exposed the lies of the security branch police, telling the world what she and her family had witnessed and endured at their cruel hands. “She also had the courage to speak out honestly and directly about the abuses and destructive tendencies she saw within her movement and within the democratic government. “At a time like this, our nation needs more people of her courage and consciousness. Our nation calls out for people who are not afraid to confront wrongdoing and to speak hard truths.  “Our nation calls out for people who will, even in the face of severe resistance, champion the values of honesty, integrity, selflessness and service,” Ramaphosa said. He said dynamite came in small packages, and that Duarte was a unifier. “She embodied a politics that was neither divisive, mean, nor small. Her politics were empowering and unifying. She understood the immense power of a united people and a united movement. “There was no difficulty, no challenge, that could not be overcome by a people united in purpose and action. And so she fought against factionalism and disunity. “She stood firm against those who would sow division, who were interested only in personal advancement, who pursued narrow interests to the neglect of the needs of the people. “Let us in her memory and in following her example, strive towards unity and common purpose. Let us build a united nation and a united movement founded on the principles of our democratic Constitution. Comrade Jessie has run her race. Our nation’s thoughts and prayers are with the family at this difficult time,” Ramaphosa said. Speaking to the family, Ramaphosa  said the nation shares in their grief. “May we all strive to honour her life by doing everything within our means, sparing neither strength nor courage, to achieve the free, united and equal society for which she so gallantly fought. May her soul rest in peace,” Ramaphosa said. A number of ANC members visited the home of Duarte, some were seen emotional but others set the tongues wagging. Ramaphosa and suspended ANC secretary general Ace Magashule and suspended ANC member Carl Niehaus were seen shaking hands and sharing jokes and bursting out laughing. The images made the rounds on social media platform Twitter, with some users going as far as being curious if Magashule was asking for his job back from Ramaphosa. Former president Jacob Zuma conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the Duarte family, friends and to the ANC, saying his “relationship with Duarte goes a long way”. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za