It seems like the spat between media personality Lerato Kganyago and the gossip blogger Musa Khawula is far from over as they continue with their feud that seems to be headed in a legal direction. This all stemmed from a post where Khawula called the media personality “Bonang Lite” . In recent posts, Kganyago revealed that she suffered a lot of pain because of Khawula and his unrevealed celebrity friend.  Turning to her Twitter account she wrote: “Start talking about the fact that you are a convicted felony, you still continue to have warrants of arrest.  “I told you the pain that you and your friend caused me you will pay for it.  “The people you are trying to please here won’t save you. “I Don’t fear you.  “I know you fear the police. You can’t hide forever in Umhlanga Rocks.  “The sources that keep feeding you information about other people.  “You are going down with them.  Don't bother deleting your DMs.” The media personality responded days ago to the tweet to which she was dubbed “Bonang Lite” claiming she was open to criticism but not disrespect. “Criticise but don't disrespect me @MusaKhawula many years I let you slide with your bullying and you know who had sent you.  “You’ve got criminal charges from 2013 of drug trafficking, robbery, you’ve been convicted (just to name a few) to deal with. “Your two ID numbers won't hide who you are!  “Tweet vile things about people from your grandmother’s backroom, KZN isn’t as big as you think.  “You and your celeb friend tried to make my life uncomfortable, and I told you I would get you. “I will unravel you and every journalist that’s feeding you information about people.  “I bother no one.  “Make your point don’t disrespect @MusaKhawula have a blessed Sunday.” shared Kganyago. The blogger said Kganyago had always followed Bonang in her career path. “Remember when Bonang was at ‘Live Amp’?  “Guess who took her job right after?  “Do you also remember when Bonang left her job on Metro FM doing the bridge?  “Babes guess who took the job?  “Guess who will replace Bonang at any other job that she leaves. Bo and lite. Xo Xo. Gossip girl.”