Renowned musician Kelly Khumalo and the late football star Senzo Meyiwa have been the subject of the talks on social media after her interview on eNCA. Khumalo received backlash across social platforms following some disclosures about her relationship with Meyiwa. This happened hours before the Season 3 of Life With Kelly Khumalo even launched this morning, an episode that is filled with jaw-dropping scenes. Giving a glimpse into the first episode of season 3 she mentions details about his murder case and the South African justice system: “This is not the only case that has been a failure when it comes to the South African justice system. But for some reason, because there’s Kelly Khumalo involved, we want to make it something peculiar, something that is different, something that has never happened before.” Speaking about Meyiwa’s family who have for years been calling for his murder/s to be brought to book, she claimed they did not love Senzo: “That family did not love Senzo. He was a cash cow.” While a lot transpires in the new season viewers are also taken back to Mother’s Day when Jub Jub wrote a lengthy message of appreciation to her. In response to that post the Empini hitmaker gives Jub Jub a middle finger. She also complains to her bestie Wanda Baloyi about having “the sh*ttiest in-laws ever,” who she claims doubted the paternity of both her children and “went to the witch doctor to get rid of me!”. Khumalo also visits Relebogile Mabotja where they talk about the rise in calls to cancel her (show) alongside the release of a true-crime documentary series about the death of Meyiwa as the trial was about to start. “The noise is external; it has absolutely nothing to do with me,” said Kelly. The Star previously reported that the show would also touch base on her proceeding with therapy, parenting her children Christian and Thingo, and working on her relationships with her mother, Ntombi, and sister, Zandi. Fans will also see her working on her most anticipated album yet, while growing her business empire, which already includes Controversy Gin and Kelly Khumalo Skin by Bioquantine. This will all happen while social media is heated with those who have been making calls to have (the) Khumalo (show) cancelled while others say she is being bullied.