Gauteng parents and guardians applying for their children’s Grade 1 and 8 school placement in 2023 have been urged to apply on time to avoid the last-minute and late application process. The Gauteng Department of Education (GDE)’s 2023 online admission process for Grade 1 and 8 will open today (Friday) at 8am and close on August 19 at midnight. In previous years, parents and guardians experienced numerous problems with glitches in the system which frustrated parents who wanted to get space for their children in their preferred schools. However, Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said yesterday (Thurs) that the system had been updated following engagements with parents and stakeholders and the system can now take almost 40 000 people at the same time. Last year, a total of 146 835 Grade 1 learners were placed at Gauteng public schools for the 2022 academic year and about 201 543 learners were successfully placed in Grade 8. “Last year we had two separate applications for Grade 1 and 8, but this year all the applications will go through a single process. All parents have to apply at the same time for both Grade 1 and 8,” Lesufi said. The department emphasised that no current Grade R learner at a school or ECD centre would automatically be accepted into Grade 1 without applying online. The MEC again urged parents to apply with one reliable number on the GDE online admissions system as every step of the application process will be confirmed via SMS for security and verification purposes. “Some parents change their numbers frequently and that creates problems for us when we want to communicate with them,” Lesufi said. This year, parents and guardians have been given the opportunity to apply for at least three schools, but the MEC added that the system would allow parents to apply for an additional two schools, if they so desire. “There are some schools where the demand is too high so some parents don’t want to just rely on that particular school. They want to try other schools,” Lesufi said. All schools will remain open and accessible on the system for applications during the application period, meaning that no school will disappear during the application period. “Previously, if a school reached a certain number of places, we would blacken that school so that we didn’t have people applying to a school that is already full.  “But schools raised concerns with us that sometimes people who apply don’t qualify and if you blacken it out, you find that the school stands empty because the majority of people don’t qualify,” the MEC said. Lesufi said placement would be based on admissions criteria and availability of spaces in line with school capacity. The MEC said that the system had also improved in terms of languages as applicants would be afforded the opportunity to make informed choices regarding languages offered when applying to a school.  The language of learning and teaching, home language and additional languages offered by each school will be visible on the system. Meanwhile, parents who apply to schools of specialisation must ensure that they contact the school to arrange for the auditions or admission tests. Parents applying for residence at boarding schools in Gauteng, must first confirm acceptance within the boarding facilities. However, they are still required to apply online for admission to the schools. The placement offer period will begin on October 3 and close on October 31 and parents must accept placements offers within seven school days. @Chulu_M