Johannesburg - Two dangerous suspects were arrested and four vehicles and drugs were recovered in a joint law enforcement operation operation on Tuesday night. The suspects, aged 39 and 45, were nabbed in an operation conducted by the Hawks’ Tactical Operations Management Section, with Crime Intelligence, the Gauteng Traffic Police Saturation Unit, SAPS GP Highway Patrol, Tshwane Metro Police K9 unit, private security companies and the Insurance Crime Bureau.  Hawks spokesperson Colonel Katlego Mogale said the team received information that a Audi A4 which was being sought had been spotted in Pretoria and was apparently heading for Johannesburg. The team stationed themselves on the N14 highway. The Audi was allegedly identified on the way, being escorted by a Toyota Corolla with Lesotho registration plates. The two vehicles were stopped and searched. Preliminary investigation confirmed that the Audi had been stolen in Sunnyside. Both drivers were arrested, one of whom was a foreign national, Mogale said. She said on-the-scene investigations led the team to Bromhof, in Honeydew, where one of the suspects lived. Mogale said upon searching the premises, two more vehicles, a VW Jetta and a Hyundai, were found. The Hyundai, which was fitted with false registration plates, was allegedly stolen in Meadowlands. The Jetta’s identity had been tampered with.   “The team also recovered various registration papers, various registration plates, vehicle parts with chassis number engraved, an electronic device (laptop) with software to design false vehicle registration papers, false eNatis documents, false 21-day permits and other vehicle-related documentation, as well as a large bag full of mandrax tablets with an estimated street value of R250 000,” Mogale said. She confirmed that the suspects would appear in court soon on charges of possession of stolen vehicles and possession of illegal drugs. One suspect also faced possession of unlicensed firearms charges and drugs charges related to a 2016 case in Cape Town. “The investigation continues and more arrests are expected,” Mogale said. The Star