The first day of online applications for Grade 1 and 8 learner placements in Gauteng public schools was marred with some glitches. The Gauteng Education Department (GDE)  online admissions system for 2023 was hampered by Google Maps when the application period for Grade 1 and 8 opened on Friday. The DA’s Khume Ramulifho said the party in Gauteng received numerous calls from anxious parents regarding the online application system. “According to the parents I spoke to, the system is not allowing parents to select schools, is not showing the correct home address and indicates that there are no schools available.  “The system is not able to handle the amount of traffic as registration was only available for a few minutes after 8 this morning,” Ramulifho said on Friday. He added that the address function did not always automatically locate where parents were, which forced them to type in an address and location on the online map function. “In addition, because of the high traffic volumes, the system is hanging and takes parents back to the beginning of the online registration process,” the Gauteng opposition spokesperson on education said. GDE spokesperson Steve Mabona said the system was temporarily restricted by Google Maps due to reaching a maximum of 6 000 requests a minute, which resulted in parents not being able to view and select schools when applying. He added that the challenge was resolved within 30 minutes after the system opened at 8.00am, and parents were able to proceed with their applications. “We sincerely apologise to parents and guardians for the inconvenience they encountered when our system opened for applications. We thank our technicians for swiftly resolving the matter, which has led us to processing a massive amount of successful applications on the first day,” said Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi. The DA urged the department to allow parents to rank their school choices from the first to the last and ensure that they were allowed to choose up to five schools as the system was only allowing for three choices. “We will be keeping a close eye on this system as we cannot have a situation where we have many unplaced learners at the start of the new school year. No child should be denied their right to education because the GDE is unable to get their ducks in a row,” Ramulifho said. As of noon on Friday,  more 165 000 Grade 1 and 8 applications were successfully processed by the admissions system. “The 2023 online admissions application period will continue until August 19, 2022. Parents and guardians are urged to either upload the certified copies of the required documents onto our system, or submit them at the schools they applied to within seven school days,” Mabona added. The department further encouraged parents to visit their district offices and decentralised walk-in centres to be assisted with applying. @Chulu_M