JOHANNESBURG: The National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) provided an update on the monkeypox situation in South Africa on Wednesday afternoon. It was confirmed that from June 22 to July 19, there were three unlinked laboratory-confirmed monkeypox cases in South Africa and no deaths reported. Three cases were reported in Gauteng, Western Cape and Limpopo respectively and the patients are males aged 30, 32 and 42-years-old. The NICD said from May 25 to July 19, South Africa conducted 226 monkeypox laboratory tests on individuals suspected of having monkeypox disease within South Africa (122 people) and other African countries (104). “No recent international travel history was reported in either of these cases from Gauteng and Western Cape; however, the first case reported in Gauteng had close contact with an undiagnosed person with international travel history while the Western Cape case the patient was reported to have possibly had unspecified contact with people who had international travel history due to his line of work,” the NICD said. The institution added that the third case reported on July 11 in Limpopo was an imported case involving a tourist who has since returned to his home country, Switzerland. Public health response measures were initiated, with 28 close contacts (five in Gauteng, six in Western Cape and 17 in Limpopo) identified. “The close contacts identified in Gauteng and Western Cape have since completed their 21 days of symptoms monitoring period, while the contacts identified in Limpopo from the two lodges where the case stayed are still being monitored. At the time of this report, there have been no secondary cases linked to the three confirmed cases reported. Full genetic sequencing for both cases from Gauteng and Western Cape was conducted,” the NICD said. The institution added that even though the risk of monkeypox to the general South African public is considered low, health-care workers should be on high alert and maintain a high index of suspicion for any individuals presenting with an unexplained acute rash or skin lesions and one or more of the signs or symptoms. These include headache, acute onset of fever (>38.5°C), lymphadenopathy (swollen lymph nodes), myalgia (muscle pain/body aches) and backache. The Star