Siyabonga Sithole The father of seven-year-old Khayalethu Magadla has detailed his suffering at the hands of the police and the City of Johannesburg following the death of his son. On June 12,  Khayalethu fell down an open manhole in Soweto while playing with friends; his body was found by members of the emergency services last Saturday, following a weeks-long search.  Speaking during a memorial service at the Dlamini Eco Park in Soweto on Friday, Khayalethu’s father Kholekile Magadla said that following his son’s disappearance, he had spent most of the time agonising over the tragedy, adding that he had been hurt by the manner in which he was treated by the police and the City.  ““City of Joburg has hurt me. I am hurt by the government... I have worked years for this government that has hurt me so much."  Magdala said the police had been slow to respond. "I was at the police station; [it] was closed with nine of them. At [the] reception [desk], one police [officer] going up and down. We waited for [a] police van, and were told the cars had gone out to Merafe.  "After 2am, the cars came. We were brought back by the police... and went to the family of the other child who was with Khaya, and the child was sleepy. {We] were there with the community alone. "I then went up and down trying to find my child... I was consoling myself every time I was seeing a child... I went up and down until 7am, and felt tired and parked my car and slept." A neighbour then came to see him with one of the children who had seen his son fall into the manhole.  "As I was sleeping, one of the neighbour's came with the child. I heard the child crying. [The neighbour said] the child could not sleep as he had seen Khaya fall into the manhole. The child was scared, and the police failed me.  "The cousin of Khaya went to school and questioned him at school and [said] the same thing.  "That is when I was sure that my child had fallen into the hole. It is when I believed that Khaya had [fallen] into the manhole. "Throughout this situation, I was always with them. I became a police [officer], a metro [official] and a rescuer." Magdala called for police officials to be better trained. "They must be well trained. [The] search began on Monday. I called one neighbour and we went to Joburg Water. [The] police did not help me with anything... I felt a pain I never thought I could feel.  "How could I sleep with my child not around. I always prayed to God to find my child. They closed the hole on the same day my son fell.  "I was hurt by this because it showed that they had already buried my son when they did this. People left me alone everyday because it was a child of a poor black person.  "I was hurt, but the community was with me. They supported me a great deal. I am grateful for their support." Magadla said he has spent weeks crying over the loss of his son. He said the City had not contacted him.