It has been a heart-wrenching week since the news of the passing of the esteemed thespian Busisiwe Mokoena Lurayi who was best known for her remarkable body of work. The prolific actress was pronounced dead at her residence on July 10 in Johannesburg. Family, friends, and the entertainment industry gathered at Market Theatre in Newton in an emotionally charged service where they remembered Lurayi for many intriguing things. Those who stood at the podium expressed how they felt robbed of great talent on screens, particularly with the immeasurable contribution she had in the arts. Her family took people on a trip down memory lane of who she was growing up highlighting how she had always carried her trait of being chucklesome and full of energy. Nkuli Sibeko who portrayed the role of Dana on “City Ses’Top La” who had been friends with her for years said she  was an amazing friend. “Being in a scene with Busi meant being at your best every take. And watch out if you weren’t doing your best she would let you know. She was clear that your best was the only thing acceptable thing. She gave her best every time. And she saw no reason that anyone else should be allowed to give less than that. We never argued about that.” Popular actor Warren Masemola who worked closely with the “How To Ruin Christmas“ actress both as a colleague and friend shared a heartfelt tribute speaking about how much of a force to be reckoned with she was. “It is difficult to say goodbye to my friend. Busisiwe Lurayi is how she always demanded to be mentioned. It was 2014 when I met Busi. It was on a set of ”Ses’Top La“ and she was on the show before it was called ”City Ses’Top La“ and she ushered me with so much love. I have had so much love, especially from females but with Busi it was everything, it was pure.” Veteran actor James Ngcobo also spoke about how detailed she was in her craft. “Everyone who has spoken about Busi you could see the common thing is her generosity that Busi had which is where Busi’s acting came from. Because when you are an actor that never needs to compete with anyone and you sit comfortably in your gift what you do is amazing.” He added that the “Ses’Top La” actress was one of the actresses who just walked in and acted. Popular actors who were fortunate to share a stage with her also spoke candidly about her stunning artistry. SABC and Eye Media shared sent their condolences to the family and friends pointing out that the talented actress would be remembered for her kindness, wit, and how she gave herself to her work. The actress was nominated posthumously for the Best Actress award at this year's 16th Annual SA Film & Television Awards just a few days after the announcement of her death. According to eNCA who communicated with her family, Lurayi will be buried Wednesday on 19 July, 2022.