The DA in Gauteng said it will fully comply with the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) amid confirming that it will investigate one of its municipalities for alleged corruption and maladministration. The SIU confirmed that it will investigate the DA-ran Midvaal Local Municipality. This is in connection with the tender for a rental of a vehicle tracking system by/on behalf of the municipality. The DA has over the years dubbed the municipality as one of the country’s top performing municipalities. “If there is an investigation we will comply with SIU. The DA prides itself on running governments that are prudent when it comes to taxpayers’ money,” said Solly Msimanga MPL, DA Gauteng leader of the official opposition. The awarding of the tender happened during the tenure of former mayor Bongani Baloyi who received seven clean audits under his leadership. Baloyi has since left DA and joined ActionSA where he is Gauteng provincial chairperson. SIU spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago said they work on the basis of allegations brought to their attention. “There were allegations brought to us by whistle-blowers who indicated that there was a problem in acquiring this specific contract for a vehicle tracking system and that the processes were not followed. We looked at the documents that were given to us and we found out that maybe there is something that we can investigate and that is what we then sent to the president for a signature and it was signed last week Friday,” said Kganyago. He said in this particular instance, the focus is one contract that was given to the Red Ants company which was once doing the vehicle tracking system. “Our focus is purely on whether there was fairness in granting this contract or whether it was given to friends or relatives. We are also going to look into the issues that relate to the people that are involved with the municipality. If we find out that the contract was not done in a fair manner, we’ve got to now check who was responsible and make sure they are dealt with,” Kganyago said. He said at this point, the SIU has not interacted with anyone as yet since the proclamation was signed by the president and was gazetted last Friday. “We are in a process of finalising the scope of the investigation and we are now approaching the municipality for a letter of concurrence so that we then start with investigation. Once we start with the investigation, we will go to everybody that was involved,” said Kganyago. He said they do not have time frames yet but they have committed themselves that ‘no investigation must take a year, if for one reason or another there has to be a preliminary report. He said it will also be based on whether people are available when they need them for questioning. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za