FRIENDS, colleagues, the hip hop industry and followers of the popular music artist George Tladi, who was fondly known as Tumi Tladi, have to come to terms with the saddening news of his untimely passing. Tladi was 30 years old when he died on Sunday, July 10, in Joburg leaving many alarmed by his death. The hip hop talent started clinching a top spot on trends with many people sending their heartfelt condolences to his family and loved ones. Those who knew the Basadi hitmaker spoke about what an incredible artist he was. His family confirmed his passing saying Tladi was deeply loved by his family, friends and the entertainment industry as a whole. “The family of South African hip hop artist Itumeleng George Tladi today confirmed with profound sadness and loss, his untimely passing. Known by his stage name Tumi Tladi, he was deeply loved by his family, friends and the entertainment industry as a whole. “Son, brother and uncle, Tumi Tladi, 30, sadly passed away in the early hours of this morning (July 10) in Joburg. He leaves behind his parents, five siblings, his niece and nephews.” The Tladi family sought privacy as they deal with the loss of their loved one. “The Tladi family humbly requests privacy during the period of grieving and asks that you please keep them in your prayers,” said the Tladi family. Since his death has been confirmed tributes have been pouring on social media with fans sending light and love to his family. Tladi had just recently dropped his latest music masterpiece Presidential with Nadia Nakai when this happened. He was also dubbed as “the realest in the game” by those who loved his craft. People on social media could not understand what had happened because he was active on his social media account just before the news that he was no more. Popular music artists such as renowned rapper AKA, music artist JR Bogopa and all Hip Hop pages were among those who sent condolences. Details surrounding his death have not been disclosed and funeral details will follow soon.