SIYABONGA SITHOLE ARMED with a BSc in mechanical engineering from the UCT and a Masters in Business Administration  (MBA) from the same institution, businessman Sandile Zungu sees himself as the saviour of the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal and as the race heats up with the 9th KZN ANC conference this weekend, Zungu has got his hand up. He is going up against veteran and current premier of the province, Sihle Zikalala and Finance MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube for the chairperson position. Zungu, who has decried the state of politics and the demise of the ANC in the province says if elected to the province’s highest position, he will prioritise electoral reforms and unemployment which is the biggest problem especially for the young people who roam the streets aimlessly. “My vision is simple. If you look at KZN, the economy is being deprived and being de-industrialised with the closure of two refineries SAPREF and Engen. This means there is a massive deprivation going down in some of the industries. There is lots of unemployment and jobs are being lost. Young people are walking the streets aimlessly,” Zungu said in a recent interview before the conference. The owner of Amazulu FC who has seen the turnaround of one of the country’s oldest football clubs is seen as someone who can help turn the situation around even in politics. He too feels he can make a difference should he emerge as the chairperson of the province. “I was nominated by the branches and these branches nominated me in droves which is why I am standing up,” Zungu said at a media briefing on Tuesday. Speaking to this newspaper, political analyst, Mzoxolo Mpolase said the contention for the top positions were nothing but contestations and factions within the party which are playing themselves out once again this week. “These are just political contestations and factions playing themselves out in the open which has been the case at many of the recent regional conferences. There are three slates that are contesting for the chairperson of the province and Zikalala looks set to retain his position because not enough was done to really challenge him. Sandile Zungu should have come out much earlier if he really wanted to seriously challenge Zikalala. It might be too late for him,” Mpolase said. The same sentiments were echoed by political analyst, Xolani Dube who said, Zungu should have launched his campaign much earlier if he wanted to change Zikalala and Dube-Ncube for the chairperson position this weekend.