The SA Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) has called for a national shutdown in protest of the rising costs of living and the problems plaguing the working class in South Africa. In a media briefing at the Birchwood Hotel yesterday, Saftu announced that it was in consultation with various stakeholders to pull off a massive strike that will be a show of force by leftist forces against a litany of issues that faced the country.  These issues include the high cost of fuel, food, electricity, the loss of jobs and the growing unemployment figures, which mainly affected young people. The federation’s national office bearers were reporting back to the media following their national executive committee meeting. The meeting came after a tumultuous national congress which the federation held in Boksburg a few weeks ago. Saftu said it would hold a workers summit before the federation goes ahead with the power strike. The summit will be open to all like-minded trade unions and NGOs.  The federation said it would also invite the SACP to the workers summit despite the fact that some had painted the SACP post-1994 as looking more pro-capital. Saftu president Ruth Ntlokotse said the day for the shutdown could be discussed by other interested stakeholders, but the federation had envisioned August 24 as the proposed date. "The campaigns that we have agreed upon cut across issues of rising prices that affect everyone," Ntlokotse said. Among other resolutions, Saftu has called for the resignation of President Cyril Ramaphosa and his entire Cabinet.  The federation said it had lost faith in the ANC administration and demanded a change of government. "We are saying that we cannot be continuously complaining and we cannot be passive; we must be active citizens. We should be active citizens of this country and we cannot be folding our hands as if things will be brought to us on a silver platter," Ntlokotse said. “Concerning Eskom, Saftu said it was concerned about operations at Eskom and the failure of Eskom management to protect South Africans from damaging stages of load-shedding.”  Ntokotse said cadre deployment was also to blame for failures in state-owned enterprises, especially Eskom. "The policies that are put in place by the ANC government are not taking us anywhere… people must be appointed according to their own merits," she said. Ntlokotse spoke about the importance of worker unity as the country is faced by the rising cost of living and a stagnant economy which was not creating enough jobs.