Johannesburg - More than 15 robbers carrying firearms of various calibres stormed into Lakeside Mall in Ekurhuleni on Wednesday and stole clothes and other items from a sports clothing shop. One female employee at that shop was shot and sustained injuries. The CCTV videos of the incident are making rounds on social media. One video shows chaos as shoppers run in different directions to avoid being caught up in the crime or being hit by bullets. Another video shows people outside the targeted clothing shop and some are traumatised upon learning that someone had been shot. A third video shows the criminals running out of the mall carrying bags full of clothing items and shooting randomly and evading security. Three sedans are seen driving by and the suspects load the clothes into the car boots. They then jump into the cars. One robber was almost left behind. He can be seen jumping into a boot as the three cars drive away, leaving clothes strewn on the ground. The Gauteng police confirmed that they have launched a manhunt for the suspects following a business robbery and shooting incident at Lakeside Mall in Benoni on Wednesday at about noon. SAPS provincial spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Mavela Masondo said it is alleged that about 15 suspects stormed into one of the shops at the mall and threatened the employees with firearms before loading clothes into the bags. Masondo said that on their way out the suspects started shooting randomly as they were running towards the getaway vehicles. “A female worker from one of the shops sustained injuries and she was taken to the nearest medical care centre. No arrests have been made yet. A case of business robbery and attempted murder has been opened for investigation,” Masondo said. Police are appealing to anyone who might have information that can help in the investigation or assist in the apprehension of the suspects to please call the nearest police station or Crime Stop at 08600 10111. Customers took to social media to raise concerns about this incident and urged mall owners to improve security. “Unfortunately, we can't comment or get banned from social media, or we cannot take action, cos we become the criminal! The point here is these are acts of terrorism! Innocent customers are not safe in malls any more! We keep pointing fingers at our authorities, but nothing gets done! It seems like the law enjoys these inhumane acts! However, shopping malls are private owned establishments, and security should be of the highest possible standard! Every vehicle needs to be searched, firearms declared, and kept with security! Firearms are not needed in a secure mall, and full vehicle details should be stored with surveillance! Our citizens need to stand together in this,” said Ved Deoraj. Another user, Charmain Nel, asked where was security, the spikes and the boom gate. She also urged the mall owners to beef up security. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za The Star