THE subject of inclusion is still tough to crack in some communities, particularly with people who believe some individuals do not match certain norms and standards. To be recognised and valued, to be seen and heard, to be welcomed and embraced into the fold of humanity, whatever our colour, creed, gender identity, body shape, ability or disability may be just what other people need to feel like they are also part of society. To help tackle the issue of inclusion, Nestle Cremora launched the Joy of Inclusion campaign with a fresh cast of authentic characters from across the spectrum, including people with disabilities, people with albinism and representatives of the LGBTQIA+ community.  At a brunch event held at the Human Rights Precinct in Johannesburg, popular broadcaster Bongani Bingwa set the scene for the campaign’s special brand of all-inclusive JOY. “Inclusiveness is not just a constitutional obligation or a social and moral duty. It’s a JOY, because when we break down barriers, when we shatter boundaries, when we remove the obstacles in our way we make the circle of inclusion bigger. And by doing that, we sow the seeds for a brighter, happier tomorrow for us all.” said Bingwa Jamila Buhlalu from Nia Orchard detailed the importance of language when addressing appearances. “We all know what the bad words are. Put yourself in someone's shoes. Think about if someone called you by that name. And if somebody referred to you by your physical appearance. Would you appreciate it?” said Buhlalu Present to share their stories and make their voices heard through a panel discussion were: Tobeka Lwana, businesswoman, communications expert and ambassador for Inclusivity and Diversity, Anele Siswana who is a clinical psychologist focusing on mental health issues. Representatives from Nia Orchid, promoting body positivity; the Albinism Society of SA and Sadag. The campaign also features Boitumelo Rametsi, model, entrepreneur and spokesperson for the skin condition vitiligo representing Body Positivity; Mpho Mofokeng, model, TV presenter, skincare expert and ambassador for the Albinism community; Gabriel Temudzani, stage and TV actor and face of the often-marginalised Venda community representing language;  Masa Diamond, chartered accountant, fashion model and ambassador for the trans community; Lelo WhatsGood, culture curator, multitalented creative and creator of safe spaces for the queer community; and Zoleka Mandela, writer and mental health activist, who has been open about her struggles with mental health, addiction, and abuse.