After successfully visiting multiple areas around Gauteng since the youth month kicked off, the Tshepo 1 million of opportunities festival wrapped up its initiative on a high note on June 30 at Umphakathi Mall in Randfontein. The youth came out (in) scores to explore the world of opportunities brought by this annual festival that seeks to assist young people to step closer to fulfilling their dreams. In a country shrouded by high unemployment, this initiative helps in empowering young people. Zamantungwa Khumalo from Tshepo 1 million shared the essence of the festival highlighting that they showcase offerings available for young people. “This campaign specifically is there to highlight the opportunities that are available from Tshepo as well as our network of partners. Tshepo is in partnership with GPG departments and also community-based organisations that exist in our communities. So we basically come together to showcase the kinds of offerings that are available and the different organisations through Tshepo 1 million the platform.” She added that the campaign focused on young people between the ages 18 and 34 who are unemployed and based in Gauteng. “We are giving them intimate engagements with these partners and giving them interactive workshops, even organisations' computer courses (are) available. Young people can start and complete it here at these festivals,” said Khumalo The Star also spoke with the MEC for Economic Development, Environment, Agriculture and Rural Development Parks Tau who delved into the essence of the youth plug tabling all the measures they are taking to ensure youth enriching projects reach them. “We are doing several things, it is an outreach programme that creates opportunities for people to know what is available in government. We have been supporting a number of these types of outreach initiatives so that people get to be aware of the product programmes and initiatives that will be able to support the enterprises,” said Tau This festival boasts a long list of partners that also helps young people make their dreams come true. T1M Festival of Opportunity events has supported more than 4733 young people and registered 3362 new joiners onto tshepo.datafree.co