When their wedding was dubbed “The union of the year” no one could have foretold that their split would be acrimonious, however, it reveals that Somhale as they were called was not the fairytale union it seemed. Each revelation brought to light about the marriage between Mohale Motaung and his estranged husband Somizi Mhlongo has commanded everyone's attention. Both have been under scrutiny for different reasons which frequently land them on trends with everyone weighing in on their failed marriage. Mohale decided to also have a platform to speak out about his experiences of the marriage, a small portion of which has been unearthed, as startling as it is. Living The Dream With Somizi S5, which finished its chart-topping run on Showmax last Wednesday, told Somizi’s version of their breakup. People will get to hear the version of events from Motaung himself, in his own words, in his own time. Showmax has just dropped the trailer for the Showmax Original Mohale: On the Record, a tell-all interview between Mohale Motaung and Aldrin Sampear. In the trailer, Mohale is spilling the beans about their relationship, mentioning that he was happy until certain things transpired. “I was happy until certain things started to happen. Like the control and constantly being reminded that I bring nothing to the table except my pretty face,” he said. In the trailer, Mohale tells Sampear that Somizi did bring him joy. “I was really myself when I was with him and I could express myself in many ways. I was happy until certain things started to happen. Like the control and constantly being reminded that I bring nothing to the table except my pretty face.” The trailer also shows Mohale addressing his abuse allegations against Somizi. “I remember him saying that he needs to mess up my face,” Mohale tells Sampear, before the trailer cuts to him talking about how, “I crawled down the stairs.”  The trailer then ends with the interviewer questioning Motaung on why he did not open a case.  Mohale: On the Record will premiere on August 4, 2022, first on Showmax.