Months after his death, those who gravitated towards Rikhado “Riky Rick” Makhado and his craft will tell you that it still feels surreal that he has passed on. Today the music icon and fashion mogul would have turned 35 years old, and the messages of appreciation and love flooding social media platforms speak loudly about the immeasurable impact he had on the entertainment industry. He has already claimed several spots on trends, with many people wishing Boss Zonke a heavenly birthday. To honour his legacy and celebrate his birthday, Legends Barbershop has been relaunched in Waterfall Corner in Midrand. His wife, Bianca Naidoo, was among those who graced the exclusive event, where she opened up about how the journey has been without him. “Its been an emotional journey for me having to do this without him here. Overseeing every last fine detail. Some might say he left some of this OCD behind. The shop is a huge part of his legacy, as you know looking fresh was very important to him. I just hope we have done him proud,” Naidoo said. Founder of Legends Barbershop, Sheldon Tatchell, said they were elated to be building Riky’s legacy. “We could not think of a more auspicious day to relaunch the store than on my brother, business partner and franchise owner Riky Rick’s 35th birthday,” said Tatchell. “We are extremely grateful to be growing so rapidly as a brand and excited to be building Riky’s legacy through his store in Waterfall Corner.” In celebration of the relaunch, the first 35 customers to register at the store will receive a fresh free cut. They are, however, requested to honour Riky’s memory by bringing along a blanket or two to donate to a local orphanage. Having recently launched their first VIP-themed store in Menlyn, the newly revamped Waterfall Corner branch will now also boast a VIP upgrade as their second flagship store in the country. Riky began his career at a young age, working on his aptitude for musical instruments and on his raps as a lyricist. Not only was the “Boss Zonke” hitmaker a veritable jack of all trades, but he also unlocked different realms for young creatives in South Africa. Many agree on how selfless he was in ensuring that others gain recognition in the music industry.