Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula has expressed heartfelt condolences on the tragic passing of Deputy Minister Sindisiwe Chikunga’s son, his wife and their four other children in a horrific accident. The crash that claimed their lives occurred on Sunday night on the N11 outside Ladysmith in KwaZulu-Natal. Eyewitnesses described the crash as horrific, and the road was closed for almost three hours. “Was a very serious accident. We waited for almost three hours there. Terrible scenes,” said Piet Swanepoel. Mbalula said he was saddened by the tragic deaths. “I have learnt with a deep sense of sadness the passing of Chikunga’s eldest son, his wife and their four children,” said Mbalula. He said their vehicle was involved in a head-on collision with another car, whose driver sustained serious injuries and is being treated in hospital. Mbalula said the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) would investigate the root cause of the crash, and the report will be made available once the investigation has been concluded. “The tragic loss of a son and his entire family has left us all numb with disbelief and pain.  I have reached out to Chikunga in this hour of sadness and conveyed my heartfelt condolences for her loss.  While words do little to console a bleeding heart and pain, I trust that she will find comfort in our support and strength to honour the memory of her son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren,” Mbalula said. He said their lives were taken too soon, candles whose flames were extinguished in the prime of their lives. “This tragic loss has strengthened our resolve to redouble our efforts to arrest the scourge of fatalities on our roads. One life lost is one life too many. The Deputy Minister is a staunch champion for road safety, and there is no better fitting tribute to the memory of her loved ones than making a telling difference in saving life and limb on our roads,” Maluka said. On Tuesday, Mbalula announced the tragic incident on his Twitter page, a move which sparked users to raise concerns about the poor state of roads in the country. “The state of our roads is bad minister, too many trucks on our roads is also a big problem because the railway networks have been destroyed. Now companies move goods with trucks. Potholes are the same as these random shootings that are happening because they can kill you anytime,” said user Maps Pingo. Another user, Marumo Mashigo said: “Minister please, as citizens we have been complaining long ago that this potholes and bad state of our roads around the country is bad, your patches is not helping, yet we pay roadworks certification for our vehicles where is the money going mr fix it”. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za