President Cyril Ramaphosa said both the ANC and government must respond “adequately, urgently and assertively” to the challenges that people are facing on a daily basis. Ramaphosa cited the burden of unemployment, poverty, crime, gender-based violence and femicide, corruption, social cohesion, racism, the energy crisis and the rising cost of living. The president said this while closing the 6th ANC National Policy Conference where just under 2000 delegates met over three days to discuss key ANC policies. Ramaphosa also emphasised that it is the responsibility of members to renew the party that has been marred with divisions and factionalism. “Delegates recognised that these many challenges will not be resolved unless we intensify the genuine renewal of the ANC and the building of a capable, ethical and developmental state. This means that we need to clearly define and articulate the character of the ANC as a non-racial, non-sexist and democratic liberation movement that must organise, mobilise and lead the motive forces and society in pursuit of a national democratic society,” said Ramaphosa. He said the renewal of the ANC requires that they remain rooted among the people, must demonstrate a willingness to serve and make sacrifices and must be willing to acknowledge and address their weaknesses. Ramaphosa said since the 54th National Conference they have made important progress in implementing their resolutions on renewal and rebuilding, but they have recognised at this policy conference that they need to act with greater purpose and urgency. “We have agreed here that the overarching framework for renewal needs to include the renewal of the ANC’s values and organisational culture and ethics. Secondly, dealing decisively with corruption and unacceptable conduct, thirdly, engaging with and pursuing the aspirations of the people, fourthly, taking responsibility to use the resources of the state for the people’s benefit as required by the constitution economically, efficiently and equitably. “This task belongs to every member, leader, public representative and structure of the ANC,” Ramaphosa said. He said this policy conference had agreed that they need to undertake extraordinary and urgent measures to accelerate inclusive growth, create employment and alleviate poverty. “We have also noted with great concern the impact of the rising cost of living on South African families, and have made a number of recommendations specifically on rising fuel and food prices. We have called on government to act urgently to support consumers and businesses at this difficult time,” he said. Ramaphosa said they have called for the state to be strengthened, for the state owned enterprises to be stabilised, restructured and effectively capacitate to drive inclusive economic growth and social development. This month the country surged into darkness after Eskom implemented stage 6 loadshedding which occurred for the second time in history. Last week Ramaphosa addressed the nation and outlined measures government would undertake to tackle Eskom’s challenges. “Conference has endorsed the actions recently announced by government to improve the performance of Eskom’s existing power stations and to add new generation capacity to the grid as quickly as possible,” Ramaphosa said. The Social Transformation chair of the subcommittee Lindiwe Sisulu said the ANCWL raised the issue of chemical castration as one of the ways they proposed to be used against rapists. “Anyone found guilty of rape should be subjected to chemical castration and they must not qualify for parole,” said Sisulu. The call came after police investigations into the gang-rape of eight women at West Village, in Krugersdorp, on Thursday. However this was criticised by Contralesa chairperson in the province, Chief Mwelo Nonkonyana. “We can deal with rapists without castrating men, we need to instill African norms and values to address moral decay in South Africa. Our constitution is against the killing of people and this would amount to killing of men alive,” Nonkonyana said. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za