Several cars belonging to the City of Joburg will be sold at auction to recover the legal costs of 130 workers that were dismissed by the City in April. The workers were dismissed by the City after their contracts were deemed illegal by the multi-party coalition. The coalition accused the previous ANC administration in the City of giving the workers permanent jobs illegally. A legal representative of the workers Presley Machaba, told The Star that the the Labour Court in Johannesburg had issued an order that the City should pay the cost of the senior counsel for the workers.  The court had also issued an interdict stopping the City from taking further action against the workers. Despite this, the workers were dismissed in April. “The first case was won by the employees. The Labour Court had granted that the council should not implement its decision pending the outcome of the bargaining council resolutions. That interdict granted a cost order to the City, a cost order that included a cost of two senior advocates,” Machaba said. Machaba said the 130 workers will now be approaching the Johannesburg High Court in a bid to get their jobs back. Machaba said the City owed the lawyers for the workers around R500 000. He said the sheriff had already identified at least five cars belonging to the City that could be auctioned off. “The city was given an opportunity to settle this money three weeks ago they did not. On Thursday last week the sheriff had attached five vehicles belonging to the residents of the City,” Machaba said. The City of Joburg has been experiencing tensions among different political parties concerning recruitment of workers and placements.  Opposition parties had accused the DA-led coalition of trying to get rid of employees hired by the ANC administration.  ANC councillor Sihle Nguse said there was a plot in the City to get rid of everything which smells of the ANC. Nguse said this was not the first group of workers to be purged by the DA administration. He said the DA had attempted to purge around 800 workers when they came into power in the city in 2016. “If you are not DA aligned you will never get a critical position in the City of Johannesburg. They even get people who are not experts, the purging of black executives in the city really worries us,” Nguse said. Meanwhile, opposition parties were also unhappy about the position of secretary to council. The Star understands that there are currently two people in the position of acting secretary to the council. Both are being paid for the work.  The appointed Secretary to Council was placed on special leave with full pay. Opposition parties said the DA was bussing in cadres from Cape Town to come and work in Johannesburg. Joburg mayor Mpho Phalatse was expected to comment  on the story before going to print.