SIYABONGA SITHOLE Yesterday the country celebrated 67 minutes for Nelson Mandela, and one of the oldest preschools in Orlando West, Soweto, the Ehlathini Asha preschool, took part in keeping the memory of Madiba alive. The Ehlathini Asha preschool, nestled near the home of struggle icon, Madikizela-Mandela in Orlando West, was a hive of activity when eager preschoolers, alongside consumer brand Procter and Gamble (P&G) and retail giant Pick n Pay   kicked off their 67 Minutes for Mandela Day – the planting of 67 trees.  Named Nompumelelo (success), there was excitement that the first tree planted would bear fruit much like its namesake and thrive to become strong like its patron Nelson Mandela, whose contribution to the future of this country continues almost a decade since his passing. Led by school principal Khabo Elda Mkhatshwa and her team in song and dance,  the preschoolers sang and danced for Nompumelelo, the tree, to grow and thrive into the uncertain but promising future. Speaking to this newspaper after the planting of the first tree, Mkhatshwa said she and her team appreciated the effort made by the visitors as Ehlathini Preschool was one of the oldest kindergartens in the area which began operating in 1957.  She said the crèche which welcomes and accommodates both paying and non-paying preschoolers from around Orlando West was big on community spirit symbolic of Nelson Mandela. "We are excited and happy to have been chosen for this initiative and today being Mandela Day means a lot to us to take part in protecting the environment we live in. This facility is one of the oldest facilities and helps members of the community take care of their little one as we welcome both paying and non-paying children.  “This is what being part of the community means for us and Nelson Mandela who is being celebrated today loved his community, " she said. Mkhatshwa added that children would learn more about saving and protecting the environment through such initiatives, added which adds value to teaching children the principles behind nature conservation. P&G head of communication Cassie Jaganyi said the 67 trees in honour of Madiba, which would be planted across 67 schools in Gauteng on Mandela Day were part of the 10 000 target of  the Forests for Good Programme set to be completed by June 2023. "The Forest for Good Programme is about protecting the planet and ensuring a better and sustainable future. We as as an organisation are committed to the idea of protecting the planet and the environment.  “We believe that this is a joint activity that must be undertaken between ourselves, our partners, the communities and other stakeholders. Today is all about coming together with the community of Soweto in honour of Nelson Mandela," she said. On what attracted them to kick off their campaign in Orlando West, Jaganyi said their choice for Orlando West was because the preschool was a stone's throw from Madikizela-Mandela's Soweto home, which made their choice more significant. On this day each year the public are encouraged to spend 67 minutes of their time in service to those in need to honour Mandela’s cumulative 67 years fighting for freedom and justice. "The beauty of choosing this particular preschool is amazing as it is literally across from Mama Winnie Mandela's home. Today being Mandela Day is in honour of his and her contribution to our freedom. We are literally celebrating what they did for us. It is in that spirit that we are here today for this initiative, "Jaganyi added. According to Jaganyi all of the trees planted on the day would be given special names as a way to encourage long-lasting care and maintenance in celebration of the spirit of growing and conserving the environment.