SIYABONGA SITHOLE The community of Thembelihle in Lenasia is living in fear after a shooting claimed the lives of five people outside Kwa KwaMlungu tavern in the area.  According to reports,  gunmen shot and killed a group of people playing dice outside the tavern on Saturday at about 7.30pm. This is the third shooting in two weeks in Nomzamo and Katlehong last week. This incident which is being investigated by the police happened a few minutes after a 20-year-old was shot in the area a few streets away from the tavern. The shooting on Saturday night outside the tavern has left the community shocked as it happened a few minutes after the shooting a few streets away of Thapelo Phiri, while on his way to buy candles at a nearby shop. Phiri is a neighbour of 39-year-old Mzikayifane Mdumbe’s, who was shot on Thursday while walking home from a choir practice. Following these shootings in a short space of time, the police say they have launched a manhunt for assailants in the area with Gauteng police commissioner General Elias Mawela saying the investigation is under way. "Preliminary investigation suggests that a group of men were playing dice at a street corner, at approximately 7.30pm when they were attacked by unknown assailants who shot at them.“ Four people were certified dead on the scene while two others were taken to a nearby medical care centre. The police said five cases of murder and two of attempted murder have been opened for investigation. Speaking to this newspaper, Jeannette Rampoane, the mother of the 20 -year-old shot, said she was called by a neighbour while she was at work to tell her that her son had been shot.  She said when she got home after an hour she found her son lying on the side of the street. "My son was just 20. He was still young and had a bright future ahead of of him and for him to die just like that really hurts me. All he wanted to do was play soccer and become a correctional officer," a sobbing Rampoane said. It was not clear if the two incidents were related but members of the community said they were living in fear for their lives. "After the gunshots I called one of my neighbours who told me two minutes later there was another shooting. We do not know what is happening but these incidents are getting out of hand,“ one community member said. Outside KwaMlungu tavern the Ndlovu family, whose son Thulani was one of those shot dead on Saturday night, came to perform a family ritual on Sunday. Collen Ndlovu told The Star that the family was distraught and in immense pain after losing their son Thulani, 31. "We are very much disturbed by the death of our son who was one of those killed last night. It is really saddening what happened and we are pleading with the police to help us find those responsible for the shooting," Ndlovu said. The Ngwenya family whose son, Sipho Ngwenya, 45  also one  died outside the tavern said  he had gone out hardly two hours when they received a call  to inform them he had been shot. His sister Thoko Ngwenya said they were shocked because Sipho had gone to visit the owner of the tavern who was a close friend. "I received a call an hour after he had left the house that my brother had been shot and when we got there, there was already police and members of the community. I identified my brother among three other people who had been shot.  “We are deeply shocked and in pain over his death. Look at his wife, she can barely control herself after the death of her husband following this tragedy," Thoko Ngwenya said. Mzikayifane Mdumbe’s sister Margeret Mdumbe said her brother, who specialised in fixing windows, was the sole breadwinner in the family and fed his family through this work. "As a family, we are deeply devastated because he made sure that everyone was taken care of. He loved his family and he loved his church and people in the community," Mdumbe said.