African People's Convention (APC) leader Themba Godi has put his support behind Wits students who demanded the resignation of the Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan. Last week, Gordhan was heckled by some Wits students during a public lecture. This saw an exchange between Gordhan and the students. The students were in conversation with the minister about issues that were affecting the country's state-owned enterprises (SOEs).  The students questioned the minister on his decisions at SAA, Denel and the latest issues at Eskom. The minister was also told to admit his role in the state capture project. Gordhan accused the students of ganging up against him and plotting to disrupt his presentation. "The APC thinks that it is wrong to even have the department of Public Enterprises. Pravin never takes responsibility for anything, he is always pointing fingers at others. What the students at Wits did was very good," Godi said. Godi called for Gordhan's resignation. He said the minister had enjoyed protection within the ANC despite the fact that he had essentially run down state enterprises. "The problem is that there are a lot of people that are not principled and they struggle to hold a political view to account," Godi said. The APC was expected to embark on a string of protests at Eskom as part of efforts to hold the Eskom management accountable for mismanagement at the power utility. The protests would take place for a number of days outside Megawatt Park.  There would be other protests in different parts of the country against load shedding and urging the resignation of the entire Eskom management.  "We are demanding an end to load shedding and the resignation of Gordhan and the entire Eskom board. We are demanding affordable electricity for all. Our campaign will be unfolding until victory; we will organise communities to join us in this campaign," Godi said.  He slammed Eskom for penalising Soweto residents who did not want prepaid meters installed in their communities. A few days ago Eskom had released a statement warning Sowetans that their power would be switched off if they did not allow Eskom technicians to convert them to split metering. "This is a class problem. The African people bear the downward spiral in all social services. This makes us wonder what kind of people are leading the country. The South African Human Rights Commission should be all over the Eskom issue because it's a human rights issue," Godi said.