SIYABONGA SITHOLE WITH blood stains still visible on the walls, floors and on the dusty ground of Nomzamo tavern, the community of Orlando East in Soweto, where 15 people lost their lives following a shooting yesterday morning, families and community members are left to wonder why? Onlookers stood at adjacent street corners in awe, wondering who could have done this dastardly act.  A stunned Gauteng Community Safety MEC Faith Mazibuko could only say: “It is a massacre.” She said firearms were becoming a problem in the townships: “Guns are now a serious problems. We now shrink when we hear guns being fired. Ordinarily people with gun licenses do not use their guns carelessly as they use them to protect their families. We need to put a stop to guns. Even Hostel dwellers who are known for guns are becoming afraid themselves. We call on communities to assist in fighting crime and violent crimes in our townships.” The Mjoli family which lost two sons in the aftermath said they were shocked as to the real reasons for the death of Sithembiso Mjoli, 34, and Liyanda Mjoli 19. “It is shocking what has happened to us as a family. We have lost two sons in this senseless killing that no one can explain to us. It is very painful for the mother and father whose first born and last born sons have been killed in such a brutal manner,” Sizile Mjoli, the aunt of the two, said yesterday. She said the eldest son made a stop at the tavern after visiting his father in Pimville while the youngest son had gone to the tavern to play snooker table, his favourite past time. “Liyanda left in the afternoon to go play snooker. He was still young and did not even drink. He was there to pass time like he usually did while his older brother was there briefly after visiting his father in Pimville. It is unthinkable then what happened to my sister’s children,” she said.  Just a stone’s throw away from the tavern Zingisile Golimbi, father of 19-year-old, Simthembile Gamade, said he too had just gone to play a game of snooker. “I had just spoken to my son who had promised to stop his wayward ways and return to school because he still wanted to do better with his life. He had promised to go back to school. I had high hopes for him and wanted him to do better,” he said. Golimbi said the family was not taking the death of their son well and hoped that taverns would be closed as they were becoming places of death and killings. “If I had it my way, taverns would be closed so that those who drink there would drink from their own homes. This thing is now getting out of control. Had I known that my son was going out to play snooker, I would have stopped him, but I did not know that at the time. My son did not drink but had been playing snooker and he died all because of this,” Golimbi said. A regular at the tavern, Nkosinathi Shezi, originally from Nkandla, said he lost five of his friends in the shooting and counts himself lucky to have been in bed at the time of the shooting. “Five of my friends that I drank with died in the shooting. We just don’t know the cause of their deaths. I just can’t bring myself to think what would have happened had I been there last night. I could have been dead myself,” Shezi said. Gauteng Police Commissioner Elias Mawela said the province had become like KwaZulu-Natal where murder rates and violent crimes were increasing. "Indeed Gauteng is now coming to be an area highly affected by high incidents of violent crimes. This is concerning as previously Gauteng was not known to be home of violent crimes but that now is changing.“