Ex-Transnet Group senior executives R93 million corruption matter will be back in court next month after it was postponed yesterday. The accused in the matter – former group chief executive Siyabonga Gama, former acting group chief financial officer Garry Pita, former group treasurer Phetolo Ramosebudi, Regiments shareholder Eric Wood, Trillian asset management current director Daniel Roy (Novum Asset Management) and Kuben Moodley Albatime Pty Ltd owner appeared at the Palm Ridge Specialised Crimes Court Early in the morning there was load shedding at the court in Ekurhuleni, but as soon as power was restored the case got under way. “The Palm Ridge Specialised Crimes Court deferred the R93 million Transnet corruption matter to August 29 for further investigations,” said Investigating Directorate (ID) national spokesperson Sindisiwe Seboka. She said ID intended to add further accused in the matter, meaning those accused don’t have to appear in August. The ID has requested for more time to continue with investigations. “Investigations in high-profile matters like these take time in order to get to court. By the time we add further accused that further evidence brought against the accused holds water. We must reiterate that the persons before court currently, we are very confident in our matter,” Seboka said. She said the ID requested a postponement in order to access evidence emanating from the state capture commission of inquiry, not necessarily the recommendations. “Whatever evidence we bring before court is first and foremost admissible. Second, it’s evidence that could hold water and further that is the evidence we are confident about especially the lead prosecutor dealing with the matter,” Seboka said. She said the accused were charged with contravention of the Public Finance Management Act, fraud, corruption and money laundering. Gama and the five executives were arrested by ID and the Hawks on May 27. Gama, Pita and Roy were granted bail of R50 000 each while Wood was granted R250 000 bail and Ramosebudi, R25 000. The group in May joined Moodley in the dock, who was arrested in September 2021. One of the accused, speaking on the sidelines, said he believed there was no case against him and the other co-accused. Seboka said in 2012 Transnet went on a Request for Proposal tender to get transaction advisory services to secure funding for $2.5 billion to fund the acquisition of the 1064 locomotives deal. Later in May 2015 Transnet appointed JB Morgan for advisory services. In July-October 2015 the same officials in Transnet started facilitating the termination of the JB Morgan contract. A cancellation resulted in them appointing Trillian in October 2015. “An invoice of R93.4 million was submitted by Trillian through Roy, who served as a director to Trillian. The invoice was approved by Pita and Gama, and payment was made on December 3, 2015 into Trillian’s account. Three days after that, R74 million was paid to Albatime, owned by Kuben Moodley, for no apparent reason. Before that, payment by Transnet was made to Regiments for R189 million in June 2015 for the alleged same services,” Seboka said. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za