Renowned R&B and soul singer is ready to exhilarate SA music lovers as she gears up for her highly-anticipated “Karyn White Live in South Africa tour” set to take place in August as part of celebrating women’s month.  The popular and multi-award-winning American singer will be at GrandWest and Entertainment World Casino in Cape Town on August 26 and on August 28 at Sunbelt Arena Time Square Pretoria. The music powerhouse is known for her long list of smash hits including “I’d Rather Be Alone” and “Can I stay with you” among many other hit songs.  This tour marks her the first international soul and R&B artist to come to South Africa (post) Covid-19. White is a multi-Platinum selling international superstar with over 10 million copies sold worldwide and a Billboard Award Winner, Grammy Award Nominee, 2 Time American Music Award Nominee, 3 Time Soul Train Music Award Nominee, and was recently honoured at the 2022 Blacks Honours Awards in Atlanta America. This will not be the first time White has graced South Africa with her striking presence. She will once again share her extensive music catalogue. In 2018 when White visited South Africa she shared how elated she was with IOL where she opened up about how she felt appreciated. “This show is tailored for South Africa. It’s not just me doing songs that are popular in the (United) States. I love the fact that there is such a respect and love for R&B there because, in the States, they take it for granted. I feel really appreciated and am excited to do these songs that I don’t do live often. It’s fun for me because it makes it fresh for me,“ said White. White has an extensive music catalogue with Hits Like “Superwoman”, “The way you Love me”, “I’d rather be Alone”, “Can I Stay with You”, “Love Saw it” and “Secret Rendezvous” to mention a few. This promises to be an amazing epic tour eperience. The tickets for Karyn White Live in South Africa will be sold at www.ticketmaster.co.za Ticketmaster South Africa Only. This tour has also promised to be exciting and memorable for those who will be part of it.