Johannesburg - Health-care experts have zoomed in on a rise in acute severe hepatitis of unknown cause in children. Yesterday (Thurs) as the world marked World Hepatitis Day, the ANC study group on health hosted a webinar commemorating the day focusing on a new variant of acute severe hepatitis of unknown cause in children. Chairperson of the National Assembly’s portfolio committee on health Dr Kenneth Jacobs explained that the reason World Hepatitis Day was so important was that more than 1.3 million people die annually as a result of hepatitis. In April the World Health Organization (WHO) was notified of severe acute hepatitis of unknown cause in 10 children across Scotland and all the patients were noted to have been previously healthy. Their ages ranged from 11 months to 5 years old. The cluster of cases led to retrospective investigation across the UK where 74 cases were identified, but the hepatitis viruses (A, B,C, E and D where applicable) were ruled out in all cases. According to pathologist Dr Zinhle Makatini, as of July 8, 1 010 probable cases had been reported across 35 countries, with almost 50% of these cases being reported in Europe, but there were also reported cases in the US, Israel and Japan where children were affected. Most patients developed symptoms which include jaundice, diarrhoea, vomiting, abdominal pain and liver failure. WHO’s Dr Sithembile Dlamini-Nqeketo confirmed that as of yesterday, acute severe hepatitis of unknown cause in children had not been reported in Africa and 22 deaths had been reported in total globally. Prior to yesterday’s discussion, Member of Parliament and whip for the ANC on the portfolio committee on Health Tshilidzi Munyai wrote an article on the plight of a new variant to contribute to Nelson Mandela month. Munyai said this new development demanded a global, comprehensive public health-care effort. Makatini explained that the adenovirus is one virus that has been implied as a possible cause of acute hepatitis of unknown aetiology. Patients who contract the virus can have respiratory tract infections, urinary tract infection and gastroenteritis (stomach flu). “Adenovirus 40 and 41 are the ones that significantly cause gastroenteritis in children the world over and it can cause severe disease in patients that are immuno-compromised. It can also play a role in liver injury in children that are otherwise healthy,” the pathologist said. She said it has been hypothesised that an immune deficit resulting from lack of exposure to pathogens during the Covid-19 pandemic rendered them more susceptible to adenovirus or alternatively, the relaxation of pandemic restrictions could have led to a massive wave of adenovirus infections. Makatini added that another hypothesis was past infection or co-infection with Sars-CoV-2 or an alternative pathogen or exposure to a toxin, drug or environmental factor. She said another possible candidate for causing acute hepatitis of unknown aetiology in children is adeno-associated virus as well as Human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-7) and Human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-8). HHV is contracted mainly through saliva and breast-feeding and remains dormant in the body. “There is a need for a call of action for collaborative efforts to make sure that we respond to this variant because we are living in an ever-dynamic health-care system environment,” Munyai said. He added that it was imperative that South Africa has a clear contribution and to engage to see if collaborative efforts can address these issues. @Chulu_M The Star