The ANC in Gauteng said it was ready to continue its 14th Provincial Conference this weekend at the Birchwood Hotel and OR Tambo Conference Centre, in Ekurhuleni. This leg of the conference happening on July 9 and 10 will see the election of additional members to the Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) and discussions of policies. Among other things, the conference will conclude the election of additional  members of the PEC, who have been duly nominated. Most importantly, the conference will pay particular attention to political discussions which will largely touch on organisational renewal, strategy and tactics balance of forces, election strategy for 2024 and socio-economic issues that are  affecting Gauteng citizens. Newly-elected provincial secretary TK Nciza said coming out of the conference they want to be clear on policy issues that the ANC should talk to, especially things that residents have been crying about for the past few years. “We must be found on the side of our people,” Nciza said. Nciza was speaking at the state of readiness briefing for the resumption of the conference at Ruth First House in Joburg yesterday. The conference was previously held from June 23 to 26 but could not conclude its business. All they were able to achieve at the previous conference last month was electing the top five leaders. Panyaza Lesufi defeated his counterpart Lebogang Maile for the position of provincial chairperson. Lesufi received 575 of the votes, while Maile received 543. Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko was elected deputy provincial chairperson, Nciza as the provincial secretary, Tasneem Motara as deputy secretary and Morakane Mosupye as provincial treasurer. Nciza believes that delegates coming to the conference are ready for the discussions, not just to vote but to raise issues that will make sure they regain lost ground as the ANC. “I believe we are going to turn the corner, come this weekend. When we leave this conference, we will be talking about a very disciplined ANC, an ANC that is united and the ANC that must advocate for the interest of our people,” he said. The previous conference had a number of challenges including some delegates who were not accredited, court interdict stemming from the Ekurhuleni 19 quarantined votes which was later dismissed and many others that led to delays Nciza said they were not expecting any delays or disturbances. “We don’t expect anything to delay this conference unless people have ulterior motives. We believe this conference must do what it’s expected of, first; elect full complement of the PEC second, deal with the issues of content. The issues of Ekurhuleni, really, everyone knows what must happen. We can’t elevate it beyond this point the NEC has dealt with,” Nciza said. He said the new leadership elected would work together and be united. “The democratic processes of the ANC must be respected because there is a temptation to say an organisation like the ANC which embraces democracy is then divided because we embrace democracy. I don’t see any organisation that embraces democracy like we do. “But post conference we should respect the elected leadership, that is how the ANC should be. We can’t be divided because we won by one vote or 10 votes. What caused division there? We are united, we will not undermine each other, we don’t have time to do that,” Nciza said. The party said the registration process (for the conference) would be de-centralised to various regions and information had already been communicated to the respective structures. Each of the five regions of the ANC in Gauteng will register their own delegates and thereafter delegates will receive new tags and information of accommodation, etc. The party said there would be no replacement/substitute delegates allowed to participate in the conference as credentials were adopted at the first leg of  the conference. ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said security measures had been tightened to ensure that only accredited delegates enter the conference venue and no peers or friends of delegates will be allowed at the conference venue. “We wish to take this time to thank delegates to the provincial conference for  displaying maximum discipline during the first leg of the conference. We wish to  encourage delegates to maintain this discipline and decorum during the upcoming conference as well,” Mabe said. The conference is expected to be addressed by ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za