SIYABONGA SITHOLE Eastern Cape police spokesperson Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana has confirmed the arrest of the owner of Enyobeni Tavern. Kinana says the owner was arrested together with two employees who were arrested over the weekend and on Tuesday afternoon respectively. The arests were carried out by a team of detectives who have been working on the  Scenery Park massacre which resulted in the death of  21 children  in the early hours of Sunday, June 26, in East London. In a statement, Kinana said the arrest of the 52-year-old owner and the two employees, aged between 33 and 34, comes after the Eastern Cape Liquor Board laid charges in Scenery Park police station for contravention of the Liquor Act. “After the opening of the case by the Liquor Board, the investigators embarked on the investigation process, which resulted to fines to the amount of R2 000 being issued to each of the two tavern employees, while summons were served to the owner for his immediate arrest and appearance in the court of law,” he said. Kinana said that over and above the violation of the Liquor Act, the investigation also focussed on alleged violation or contravention of the Eastern Cape Liquor Act by permitting or conniving for the selling or supplying of alcohol to children under the age of 18 years and for selling or supplying of alcohol to children under the age of 18 years The tavern owner is expected in the East London Magistrate’s Court on August 19 to face the charges. The two employees have been given an option of a fine in terms of the Liquor Act. “Should they fail to pay the fine, they will be required to appear in the same court on the August 19. SAPS management has reaffirmed its commitment in ensuring that all the investigations around the Scenery Park tragic incident are conducted in a professional and well-organised manner for a successful prosecution and subsequent  conviction in the court of law,” he said Kinana added that the provincial commissioner, Lieutenant-General Nomthetheleli Mene, was happy that police were acting against those found to have violated the laws governing the Liquor Act, and happy with the work of the police in general. Kinana said the police were still unable to comment on the cause of death of the children, as the forensic investigation was still ongoing.  “As indicated earlier, at an appropriate time and conclusion of the investigation, the results will be made available to the affected families. There are no new developments at this stage,” hesaid.