Most South Africans have begun making their mark to celebrate Madiba Month in multiple ways that impact several communities in efforts to ignite hope in the spirit of Nelson Mandela. With everyone extending their humanitarian hand, The Central Gauteng Lions chief executive officer Jono Leaf-Wright has made his 67 minutes count in Wanderers Stadium in Joburg, where he was part of 450 people ensuring some families would be fed. His cricket players came out in numbers to lend a helping along with all partners who were on the ground to help pack food parcels. Leaf-Wright, who has been in the world of cricket for more than a decade, shared with The Star the essence of  Mandela Day. “Today is just a magnificent day. It is a celebration of being proudly South African. It is a celebration of what Mandela taught us.  “And we are all here today packing 5 000 food parcels to give back to those communities within South Africa as we celebrate Mandela Day.  “There are 450 people on the ground from different corporates, our partners, our players, and our staff packing these.  “And if you taking photos we have put food parcels on the seat that we will donate later today. “So we collaborated with Ashraful Aid, which is one of this country’s biggest NGOs that do magnificent work globally and not only in this country.  “And they identified a lot of communities not only in Joburg but within the country that these 5 000 parcels would go to.” He said they have worked closely during the pandemic donating food hampers worth R5 million to various communities around Joburg. Yusuf Nabee who is the COO of Ashraful Aid said Nelson Mandela Day was all bout bringing people together to be able to give back, particularly in these tough times.. “Today is all about helping the destitute families and those in need by providing food relief to them in the spirit of Nelson Mandela day.  “In the spirit of Madiba's message of shared humanity and that is what our organisation is all about,” he said. Nabee said the organisation has been helping out the needy globally, especially during Covid-19 pandemic.  When the flood hit KwaZulu-Natal the organisation ensured support was given to the all the affected families.