SIYABONGA SITHOLE Police in Pietermaritzburg have moved swiftly following the arrest of two people in connection with the deadly tavern shooting in which four people died and eight reportedly wounded at Sweetwaters Tavern in Pietermaritzburg in the early hours of Sunday. This move has been hailed a welcome breakthrough and a first step of bringing to book all those who orchestrated one of the country’s bloodiest weekends. However, the United Democratic Movement (UDM) says it is concerned as tavern shootings have become a trend in the country following the Soweto, Kathlehong, Pieitermaritzburg and the Enyobeni Tavern massacres. “The United Democratic Movement is extremely concerned about this new trend that is happening in and around South Africa, tavern patrons (mostly youth) losing their lives. “This is alarming, while the minister of police, Bheki Cele is going around the country hosting talk shows that are not yielding any fruitful results. He is wasting taxpayers’ money playing a political race card,” UDM general secretary-general, Bongani Msomi said in a statement. UDM has called for the police to intensify their efforts in apprehending lawlessness in the country adding that the country is slowly turning into a banana republic with many tavern owners not following laws and by-laws. “Tavern owners are doing as they please and operate without adhering to stipulated hours of their operations. These killings are usually taking place in wee hours and if there was police visibility in townships or around these taverns, these killings could be prevented,” Msomi said. On Monday, the minister of police assured the community of Nomzamo during his visit in the area intensified efforts to patrol the area with the deployment of a special tactical unit, Amaberete and more police visibility to curb lawlessness. The minister, and his deputy, Cassel Mathale, along with the senior management of the SAPS, national and provincial police commissioners, Fannie Masemola and Elias Mawela took residents of Nomzamo into their confidence and urged them to support the work of the police as they work around the clock to find the culprits. The minister said he had ordered his juniors to ensure a police management task team of an 11-member detective team to investigate the murders adding that maximum resources had been activated to find and apprehend the five suspects. Following his visit to the Soweto crime scene, Cele said the attacks on the taverns in the two provinces were more coincidental than co-ordinated. “In Soweto, police investigators picked up over 140 empty cartridges from high calibre weapons at the scene, it was a brutal war in there and quite clear these murderers wanted to kill as many people as possible. Police are working around the clock and all resources and personnel are out in full force to find these criminals and piece together the motives behind these senseless killings. Wherever these men are, they must know: we will not back down, we will not rest,” the minister said.