Siyabonga Sithole Outspoken entrepreneur and chairperson of Invest Africa, Robert Hersov, has once again called out the Cyril Ramaphosa regime for running the country into the ground. In a recent interview with anchor of BizNewz, Alex Hogg,  businessman Hersov said many of the funders of the Ramaphosa 2017 campaign would not fund him for his second-term campaign because he has failed the country. He added that many good ANC members would quit the party if they could afford to. "The ANC is about who is in charge and who can steal. But there are still a lot of of people with integrity who just cannot afford to leave because of the Mafia structure of the ANC.  “Cyril is 100% behind the problem and everyone knows it. He pretends to be a reformer and used this to get whole lot of businesspeople to back him  with the threat of the RET (Radical Economic Transformation) group but I do not see them backing him this time round because the ANC has reached its sell-by-date. The ANC needs to disappear and for that to happen the good people need to stand up and say not any more,” Hersov told Hogg. This is not the first time, the businessman has spoken out against leaders of the governing party. Last year, in an interview that went viral, Hersov said if Nelson Mandela was still alive he would have voted DA and Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula was charming but not "very smart". His utterances against leaders of the governing party caused a stir with many reaching out to him to find out what his gripe was with the ANC. In the return sitdown with Hogg, the 61-year-old business man said the ruling party would not do well in the 2024 elections. "The ANC brand has been destroyed. The criminals in the ANC have taken over and Cyril Ramaphosa does not deserve another term in office. Imagine another term in 2024 and onwards. We are finished. This country will be finished and the economy will collapse, "he said. Hersov added that the governing party has become an organisation run through a detailed bribery structure that makes it hard for talented people to succeed. He said that cadre deployment as a policy was responsible for of the problems. " The ANC is a Mafia and a criminal organisation. I believe there are number of good Cabinet members within the ANC who would leave the party if they had somewhere to go ... The Cabinet now stands for clowns, communists, cadres, colluders and criminals," he added.