Johannesburg - The Public Servants Association (PSA) has accused the South African Revenue Services (SARS) of compromising the country’s security by prolonging the wage impasse between workers and the state company. According to the union, there was huge congestion at the borders, with trucks queuing for days and causing frustration with drivers, with some of them transporting products that could not be in transit for an extended period. The PSA said it was also concerned that putting volunteers at the border could compromise state security, leading to smuggling of weapons and other illicit goods. Sars employees have been on strike since last week. Unions had asked the revenue services for a wage increase amounting to inflation plus 7%, but Sars was only offering 1,39%. “Recent events include the arrest of a truck driver for transporting illicit cigarettes that were cleared by customs. There are also rumours of weapons being brought into the country through unguarded and unmanned border gates. The deployment of managers and volunteers with no custom experience and skills is exposing the country to losing millions in revenue and eases the transportation of illicit products. Criminals are set to exploit the situation to their benefit,” the union said. According to the union, the prolonged strike and absence of experienced officials at border gates will impact economic growth and cause the under-collection of tax revenues. “The PSA warns non-striking workers who are called to volunteer at border gates that they are exposing themselves to disciplinary proceedings, which may result in the termination of their services in the event of making mistakes owing to a lack of knowledge and skills to perform at the required level,” the union said. The union said South Africa had been identified as one of the possible conduits for the transportation of illicit products and that the  PSA  was concerned about the security cluster’s silence. The union accused Sars management of being arrogant. It further said the strike could create fertile ground for the transportation of illicit goods, including weapons, drugs, fake goods, rhino horns, stolen cars, and even human trafficking. “The PSA therefore believes that this matter no longer falls within the competency of the Sars Commissioner and the Minister of Finance but warrants the intervention of the President to prevent a national disaster. The sovereignty of the country is at stake, and the President is urged to intervene to break the impasse and secure the country,” the union said. The Star