Celebrities and various dignitaries rolled up their sleeves for 67 minutes at Qobosheane Primary School where they assembled for Nelson Mandela Day to hand over shoes and assist in other volunteer activities of the day. With learners often faced with a struggle of travelling long distances without proper school shoes the initiative could not be more of assistance to them. Adopt-a-School Foundation has joined hands with the Popular South African sneaker brand Bathu to champion a school shoe campaign to celebrate the foundation’s 20th anniversary. Adopt-a-School Foundation chief executive Steven Lebere spoke about the essence of the initiative. “Back To School for a day extends beyond just annual day of action, it encourages citizens to become involved in improving education on a sustained basis. This day will help improve the physical environment where children learn, grow and develop to reach their full potential. Whether it’s painting the walls, planting food gardens or fixing broken furniture. This day is about rolling up sleeves and lending a hand to make a difference.” He added that investing in young children was important for South Africa, pointing out that through collaboration and collective effort every child could be afforded equal opportunity for a better future “Investing in young children is crucial for our country, through collaboration and collective effort, every child can be afforded equal opportunity,” said Lebere. Managing director of Bathu, Cedrick Diphoko also remarked on the project revealing that the Bathu Care Project was their way of giving back to the community. “The Bathu Care Project is our way of giving back to the communities in the best way possible. Our slogan is ‘Walk Your Journey’ and with this we intend on assisting the kids at Qobosheane Primary continue to walk their journeys. We have to date donated approximately 50 000 pairs of shoes with a goal of 1 million donated school shoes to kids nationwide (in) 10 years,“ said Diphoko. The day also saw volunteer activities which included renovating Grade R and foundation phase classrooms and creating a vegetable garden to provide fresh food to learners through the school’s feeding scheme.