“The day I decided to leave my marriage is the day I had to choose being married or being alive.” Popular singer Berita has spoken candidly about her marriage woes, with Nota revealing that with all the statements he has made publicly, he needed mental help. This happened a few days after Nota was vilified for dehumanising popular influencer Mihlali Ndamase by comparing her with an object in a video clip that was circulating on social media. “There are some guys who think that Mihlali is attractive, and all I think is ningamuthenga (I could buy her). And they don’t understand that if Mihlali is for sale, that means she’s an object, which means that you can kill her if you want to. It’s like buying a dog. You can put it down.” In a string of posts, Berita said she left their marital home in January 2022 and they are no longer married. “ Morning Tweeps. I was off Twitter for a couple of days. I only became aware of statements made by Nhlamulo “ Nota” last night. I would like to first clear the air by being quiet because there is families involved  in this situation.” “I am no longer married to Nhlamulo “Nota” Baloyi. I left our marital home on Thursday the 13 January 2022. As it stands, we are currently separated.” “I have been quiet about this because my safety has been a huge concern. This man is extremely irresponsible, irresponsible, reckless, and unruly. He simply does not listen to anyone. I do not condone his actions. I can not even begin to count the numerous he has erred in his speech.” “It's difficult for me to follow his every move. I simply can not babysit a grown man.” Berita apologised to Ndamase and said, “@Mihlali mntase uxolo. I apologize to you. I do not condone such things said by Nota to you. No woman should ever be objectified and ripped apart publicly or privately.” She further spoke about the bullying and disgrace she faced publicly and privately, claiming it has been painful. “ This man's irrational behaviour is beyond me. I am a very reasonable person. I will be the first to admit it. I missed very big red flags. The day I decided to leave my marriage. Is the day I had to choose. Between being married and being alive.” “My one request is that Nhlamulo “Nota” Baloyi needs help with his mental health. I tried my best whilst in his life. I tried to also plead with his family about this. He is a really good man. Sometimes he means well. He needs help.” shared Berita