The return of “Idols SA” has sparked great excitement among viewers anticipating the talent and all the entertainment that comes with this much-followed show. It was easy to tell the show is back by popular demand when it claimed several spots on trends across social media platforms, showing its dominance in just a few hours of its return. The new season presents “Singing a different tune” as the new theme, along with a fresh panel of judges after waving goodbye to the longest-serving judges. For Season 8 the show has introduced renowned actress Thembi Seete who is popular for her portrayal of Gladys on Mzansi Magic’s telenovela “Gomora”. Joining the judges’ table is hitmaker, techpreneur and rapper JR Bogopa. Since his “Make the Circle bigger” days, the award-winning musician has branched out into various parts of the entertainment industry. Returning to the judge’s chair is Somizi Mhlongo who also saw himself on trends with viewers, saying they missed his effortless humour. With the first episode viewers have already been talking on social about some missing the old judges, while others are particularly pleased with the new ones. The show has already been the centre of discourse as viewers share their excitement about its return. Popular media personality Unathi Nkayi, who was one of the judges on “Idols, announced her departure from the much-loved show after serving for a long time. Randall Abrahams also made an unexpected announcement, revealing that he will not be part of the new season. Shirley Adonisi, M-Net director for local entertainment channels, told the media that they were taking a fresh approach. “We are taking a fresh approach to the judging panel to retain audiences and stay competitive in the Sunday night timeslot. “We salute these great icons of South African entertainment and thank them both for great innings on “Idols”. Randall and Unathi have demonstrated high levels of professionalism and made an impact on the South African entertainment scene that will continue to be felt for some time to come. We wish them well in their endeavours.” Nomsa Philiso who is the executive head of programming general entertainment added: “We’re excited to have ‘Idols SA’ return for an incredible 18th season.  “To have such longevity in such a fast-changing industry is no small feat, and we’re proud to keep giving our viewers what they love. One of the key components in having staying power is evolution, and our new-look panel is part of that.”