SIYABONGA SITHOLE  The Job Rathebe Junior Secondary School in Orlando East, Soweto, never had it easy on the first day of the third school term yesterday. Parents and members of the school governing body forced the school to shut down, claiming that the school principal was running the school from her home.  On the same day, a learner was arrested after being found in possession of a firearm. The arrest came just as parents and members of the SGB had  blocked entry to the school premises, causing a disruption on the first day of school. Speaking to this newspaper following a meeting between the school, SGB and the Gauteng department of education due to the litany of complaints about the school principal – accused of running the school into the ground due to non attendance and other administrative issues –  SGB chairperson Bafana Mlambo confirmed that the police arrested one of the pupils who was found  in possession of a firearm. "Yes, one of the pupils was taken in by the police for possession of a gun. Though we are not sure if this was a real gun or a toy gun. This happened during a commotion because this morning, we had closed the gates and and dismissed learning due to a series of complaints and issues we have in this school.  “It was discovered that the pupil had brought a firearm inside the school premises. He was arrested by police upon the discovery of the gun. He confessed that the gun was not his but was hidden in his school bag by a former student of the school who was suspended and transferred because of his wayward behaviour, "Mlambo said. A neighbour who lives across the school told The Star that the arrested student is a former pupil who is no longer a student at Job Rathebe but a troublesome loafer who has in the past been seen carrying a gun. "Thando is a troublesome former student, who according to those who told me the story, brought the gun into the school. “Upon realising that there were police, this Thando, is said to have taken his gun and put it inside the bag of the pupil. There is a video taken by one student who was in a car waiting for his mother who saw Thando put the gun inside the bag of the said pupil," the neighbour said. The neighbour added that early this year, the same Thando, who used to be a Grade 8 learner at the school, was seen carrying a gun around the neighbourhood. "I had pictures of him that I took of this sometime this year. He came around walking like a big boss with a gun underneath his T-shirt.  “I just wonder what would have happened if  the school was operational today and not shut down. I suspect we would have witnessed another massacre because I suspect that he was here to cause trouble," the neighbour of the school said. Following the meeting with the SGB and parents, chief director of the Johannesburg education region, Dennis Macaumacau, said the disruption of classes yesterday had put the resumption of the third term on a bad foot. But he was confident that all the issues would be sorted out following the election of a task team that includes officials from the Gauteng and Johannesburg  department of education, the SGB, teachers and students. "Yes indeed, we have had a bad start here at Jon Rathebe. Remember, it is the first day of the third term. Unfortunately because of the concerns that parents and the SGB were raising around the school, they resorted to shutting down the gates.  “Indeed, when we arrived this morning the gates were locked but we managed to negotiate with the SGB and the community leaders so we can have a meeting to listen to their grievances. The meeting resolved to elect a task team as the issues raised are serious issues," Macaumacau said. The treasurer of the SGB,  Myron Shongwe, who was at the school, accused the principal of being absent for a long time. She was hogging the school purse which made things worse and affected delivery of services and infrastructure at the school, he said. “The principal is always sick and has been sick a long time. She is running the school from her home and is the only one who is able to operate the school account.  “As things stand, the school’s toilets are dysfunctional and pupils are forced to relieve themselves on the other side of the school at the back," Shongwe said.