When she laid her eyes on her baby for the first time she was convinced that there must have been a blunder by the nurses while giving birth. Out of frustration and shock she said the first thing she did was to reach out to her mother and tell her about the condition of the baby. Her lack of  knowledge about a cleft lip and palate instilled panic until she was told what it was and how her baby could get help and be normal like other children. Qaqambile Phika, 29, is a mother to Sibaluhle Phika, 5, a young boy with a cleft lip and palate. She speaks candidly about her mothering journey from giving birth to Sibaluhle, which created frustration until she was  informed about  it, to becoming an activist and telling other mothers about it.  “There isn't much that I can speak of about my pregnancy because (I) had no problems. Sobaluhle did not show any signs that he had a cleft lip and palate when I went for a sonar scan. We only saw  the cleft lip and palate after I had given birth.” said Qaqambile. After she found out about her son's condition she decided to quit her job to give him all the care and support that he needed. Phika revealed that when Sibaluhle had started playing with other kids he would come home crying after being teased about the skewness of his nose. Those days would be heart-wrenching for her but she focused on telling him how special he was. She highlighted that it was all the support and care from loved ones that saw her through the toughest phases of raising Sibaluhle. The 29-year-old mom is pleased that Sibaluhle has not let his condition hinder him from having fun at school with other children. “Sibaluhle is a bubbly child. He likes going out to the malls, playing with his friends, and going to church,” she said. Her hope is for the government to intervene in getting mothers with kids that have cleft lips and palates  all the help that they need, particularly counselling. A cleft palate and lip is known as openings or split in the roof of the mouth and lip. It is a common birth condition that can occur alone or as part of a genetic condition or syndrome.