With South Africa known as the hub of entertainment, the music streaming giant, Spotify has revealed their top tracks that have kept music lovers entertained this week. Leading the pack on music that is dominating the charts in South Africa is Kabza de Small, who has claimed the third spot on the top 5 artists on Spotify. Popular Amapiano sensation De Small has been showing dominance on music charts. This week he is the only local artist among the top 5 artists on Spotify. His latest album, KOA II Part 1, is in the top 5 albums in South Africa. De Small is the man behind the production of multiple smash hits such as Asibe Happy and Abalele where he features renowned DJ Maphorisa and popular music sensation Ami Faku. Something Soweto is also thriving on the charts with his latest smash hit single. Amagents. This song has clinched the number 1 spot on Top 5 tracks in South Africa. Amagents also places itself as the top track of the Top 5 tracks in Johannesburg. Not only has it been successful on Spotify but other music streaming giants have also recognised this work of art. The Canadian rapper Aubrey Drake Graham took a  number 1 spot after his surprise album, Honestly, Never Mind, that had some of its songs produced by the Grammy award-winning talent Black Coffee with his son, Esona. Among chart-topping hits, Uncle Waffles’s Tanzania has proved to be a fan favourite, placing itself on the Top 5 tracks in Johannesburg on Spotify Charts this week. Tanzania has been steady in the charts over the past few weeks since its release. Weeks ago, Tanzania was announced as having clinched the number 1 spot on the charts. Featuring Tony Duardo and Sino Msolo, Tanzania, which dropped in March, has 4.1 million views on YouTube. Sofa Silahlane, by Wanitwa Mos, Master KG, Lowsheen, and Nkosazana Daughter, has also been consistent on the charts after clinching the number 1 spot on other music streaming giants. A while ago, Master KG celebrated success on the music charts. Taking to Twitter, he expressed gratitude to all those who continued to support his artistry. “Sofa Silahlane, which he released through his label’s name, Wanitwa Mos, is number one on Apple’s local iTunes charts.” “Waking up To the Number 1 Song in the country. Shout out to Nkosazana daughter and Lowsheen #Sofasilahlane,” he tweeted.