South African Revenue Service (Sars) employees from the Alberton Campus affiliated to the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) are peacefully picketing outside the branch. Members from the Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department (EMPD) are present observing the picket. The employees made it clear that they do not accept the 1.39% wage offer, but are demanding a 12% increase. Employees downed tools on Tuesday, following a breakdown in wage negotiations between unions and the revenue service, and this led to SARS shutting down branches as the wage strike intensifies nationwide. Elias Mamaregane, Nehawu branch chairperson representing employees, said they expected to have a meeting for negotiations later on Thursday. “Obviously, with the current attitude from the employer, we don’t expect much; ours is to soldier on. This is an indefinite strike, so we hope the strike will be over when we receive what we have demanded,” said Mamaregane. Mamaregane said the strike would affect South Africans at large and at ports of entry. “This strike will affect the public, who will also suffer in terms of our services, but at the same time we need South Africans to understand that we are here. As SARS collectors we would have actually collected more than we were supposed to; at the same time we expect that the 12% we demand is actually a fair percentage to request,” he said. Mamaregane said this strike could have been avoided had the employer not been arrogant. He said workers had put on hold a national strike with hopes that the SARS management would negotiate in good faith. “We could have been on strike a while back, but we believe in engagement planning and we also respect the institution we are at because of the role it plays. Obviously we don’t just sit down and say we are going to strike. There was a whole lot of engagement that has taken place, and at this stage we realised that arrogance had led us to where we are today,” said Mamaregane. He said the core demands were the 12% wage increase, bursaries that were offered to employees but were taken away, and more. SARS has urged taxpayers to use digital platforms. “SARS apologises for any inconvenience caused, but due to the industrial action taking place across SARS, we are experiencing delays in servicing our taxpayers. “While branches may be closed to the public, we will continue to honour virtual appointments, as booked. In the event that a virtual booking is not honoured, please note that the branch will follow up to do the necessary service recovery,” said SARS in a media statement on Thursday. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za