Johannesburg - Power utility City Power has warned residents against opening their substations and operating on the network as it is dangerous and illegal. This comes as a Crosby, Johannesburg, resident is currently in hospital after a mini substation blew up in his face after he allegedly illegally opened the mini substation and tried to operate it to restore electricity. City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena said on Wednesday afternoon that the area had been without electricity from earlier on Wednesday after the mini substation tripped on a suspected overload. He added that a call was logged with City Power, and the team was finishing at one site before they could attend to the tripped mini substation. “In a trail of WhatsApp Group messages from impatient residents, the victim was warned by the Councillor and other residents against trying to operate on the City Power network. It would seem the victim went ahead and tried to operate when the substation blew up,” Mangena said. The power utility said it operates in a highly regulated environment which prohibits unauthorised individuals from working on the electricity network. “No resident is allowed to operate on the City Power network as this is not only illegal but dangerous, as is the case with the incident in Crosby,” City Power said. The power utility said it had a serious problem of vandalism of its infrastructure to an extent where residents illegally operate the network, often with the help of unqualified electricians, and connect themselves to the network or make illegal connections into the informal settlements. City Power added that Crosby is one of the areas with this problem where people in formalised houses illegally connect themselves, bypass metres, and illegal connect to the Slovo informal settlement. “This mini substation which blew up is brand new after we installed it a few weeks ago, and even our MMC Michael Sun visited the team working to connect it. We have, as City Power, decided to report a case of vandalism and malicious damage to property against the victim as they were not supposed to go inside the substation yard and operate our infrastructure,” Mangena said. City Power further apologised for the inconvenience caused by this and wished the victim a speedy recovery. The Star