The ANC Greater Johannesburg Region is ready to hold its 15th Conference this coming weekend. On Tuesday the party announced that it will continue as scheduled for this weekend the 3 to 5 June 2022 amid attending to outstanding disputes. The Regional Conference Preparation Committee had a meeting on Monday o to  assess the region’s readiness to continue. The region has in the past few months lost about five top members including three executive mayors Geoffrey Makhubo, Jolidee Matongo and now recently Mpho Moerane who was one of the candidates for the position of regional chairperson. “The delegates pre-registration for the conference will take place on Wednesday at Connie Bapela House, 124 Marshall street, Marshalltown. All delegates must produce proof of  vaccination or their COVID-19 test results valid for 72 hours,” said spokesperson Sasabona Manganye. Manganye said the Regional Task Team supported by PEC and NEC deployees noted that all disputes lodged with the Regional Dispute Resolution Committee (RDRC) and appeals to the Provincial Dispute Resolution  Committee (PDRC) were all attended to by Saturday, 28 May 2022. He said branches still had an opportunity to  appeal the decision of the PDRC with the National Dispute Resolution Committee (NDRC) which is the  final arbiter in all disputes lodged. “Branches were given 48 hours to appeal the PDRC decision and by  yesterday (Monday) when the Regional Conference Preparation Committee met, there was no appeal lodged with  the NDRC. We believe that even if there was to be any appeal, it will be attended before the scheduled  conference,”Manganye said. He said the Regional Conference Preparation Committee also considered their readiness with regards to the  conference logistics including accommodation, branding, security, COVID-19 Vaccination and protocol  measures for delegates. Manganye said the conference is convened under the theme: Unity and Renewal to Defend and Advance South Africa’s  Democratic Gains. He said the first day of the conference will focus on the input by the Palestine Ambassador Hanan Jarrar  focusing on the Palestinian struggle for self-determination. Manganye said the second day will focus on the adoption of the credentials, addressed by the Provincial Chairperson,  presentation, discussion and adoption of the Political, Organisational and Finance Reports. The  nominations and elections of the Regional Office Bearers will therefore take place followed by the  nominations and election of the regional additional members. He further said the second day will also be addressed by the former Statistician General, Pali Lehohla on  society’s perception towards the ANC followed by focus on the following commissions: Strategic Outlook: Base Document, Elections, Organisational Renewal  and Reclaiming the City. “The third day will focus on receiving the results on the elections of the regional additional members and  receiving reports from commissions, conference declaration and closing remarks by the newly elected  Regional Chairperson,” Manganye said. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za