SIYABONGA SITHOLE FORMER State Security Agency (SSA) director-general Arthur Fraser is demanding that the National Prosecution Authority (NPA) make several arrests in the next seven days or answer why the authority has not charged former safety and security minister Sydney Mufamadi, Loyiso Jafta and witnesses known as Mr Y and Mr W for perjury. In 2021 Fraser told The Star that given the opportunity to appear at the Zondo Commission he would make revelations about President Cyril Ramaphosa, corruption and even the judiciary. Although Fraser applied to appear before the commission, the inquiry into state capture concluded it’s business before Frazer was given an opportunity. The former state security head opened at the Hillbrow police station in 2021 but the case is still mum. Fraser has enlisted the services of Eric Mabuza attorneys who have written to the NPA demanding that the authority make its decision in the next seven days informing them whether it would continue with the case as they had not updated him of the case progress a year after the case was opened. "We represent Mr Arthur Fraser (our client) who previously served as the director general: State Security Agency (SSA) "Following the submission of the police investigation docket into our clients complaint to your office for the decision more than a year ago, our client has not been advised if the progress of the investigation, nor the decision in this matter.  “We are subsequently instructed to request you to communicate your decision within seven days on whether Dr Fholisane, Sydney Mufamadi, Mr Loyiso Jafta,  as well as secret operatives identified as Ms K and Mr will be prosecuted on charges of perjury and whether state capture commission's evidence leader Paul Pretorius  SC and advocate Veruska September will be prosecuted on charges of subornation of perjury" reads the letter to the NPA. “The lawyers representing Fraser further added that on the event that the NPA declined to prosecute the persons mentioned, they have been instructed to request the nolle prosequi certificate  from the NPA as a formal document that states that the authority declines to prosecute. "In the event that you decline to prosecute any of the above persons, we are instructed to request a nolle prosequi  certificate as envisaged under section 7(2)(a) and section 7(2)(b) of the criminal procedure Act 5 of 1977, " read the letter. “This letter follows a year long case opened at the Hillbrow police station against the officials of the state security agency who according to Fraser ‘peddled falsehoods’ about him. In an affidavit, Fraser claims that Mufamadi lied about the R9 billion spent by the security agency when Fraser was at the helm of the intelligence agency. At the time Fraser said Mufamadi had inflated the figure of redundant access from R9m to R 9bn and that Jafta had also confirmed this figure under oath when he was giving testimony at the state capture commission.  Another lie by Mufamadi that has irked Fraser is the allegation that Fraser had employed his son as an employee of warehouse that was used by the agency as a front company. Furthermore, Fraser denied that there was documentary evidence related to R125.6m used for operational expenditure for which SSA could not provide evidence of. It is these comments that resulted in Fraser approaching his lawyers to seek clarity on the case of perjury opened over a year ago. NPA spokesperson Mthunzi Mhaga said he has not seen the letter from Fraser's lawyers and thus could not comment on the matter. "I have not seen such a letter I can only check tomorrow at the office. Therefore am unable to comment thereon," he said.