By: Siyabonga Sithole According to a recent World Health Organisation (WHO) report, more than 12 million girls give birth in developing countries each year. At least 800 000  of these girls are under the age of 15, in South Africa a report by the Gauteng department of health more than 23 000  girls under the age of 18 gave birth in 2020/21. As a response to high levels of these pregnancies Minister of Social Development, Henrietta Bogapene- Zulu and MEC for the department of Social Development in the Eastern Cape, Siphokazi Lusithi officially launched the National Child Protection week in Inquza Hill municipality in Lusikisiki which is notorious for high incidents of teenage pregnancy. District Director for the department, Khanyisa Manakaza, said that the highest number of child abuse, child neglect and exploitation, child killings as well as incidents of ukuthwala and other harmful cultural practices. These are also worded by cultural and gender norms that perpetuate violence against children. This week the department  of social development commemorates National Child Protection week which is observed annually to raise awareness  of the rights of children as articulated in the constitution of South Africa's children Act (Act No.38 of 2005). In the build up to the week-long campaign, the department  conducted teenage pregnancy round-table discussions with various stakeholders including children, parents, teenage mothers and caregivers in Lusikisiki in the Eastern Cape and Ulundi, in KZN. According to the department of social services, a recent report titled “Adolescent and Youth Health Policy", released by the department of health,  focusing on Adolescent and district data shows that every year, girls(some of them aged 10 and 14 years) are among the unacceptably high number of children  who give birth in provinces such as Eastern Cape , KZN, Gauteng, Limpopo and Mpumalanga with the report also suggesting that children born to teenage mothers increased by 60% during COVID-19 national lockdown. Last year, the same report also revealed that more than 23 000 girls under the age of 18 had given birth between April 2020 and March 2021 of which 934 of them were aged under 14 years old. During the discussions, Acting Chier acting  chief director in the department Neliswa Cekiso said the department tasked with the responsibility to care for and protect children, the high number of teenage pregnancies was a cause for concern requiring multifaceted interventions. “Teenage pregnancy is a multi-faceted problem that requires a comprehensive intervention. W e all have an obligation as communities, parents, caregivers, teachers, health professionals to report suspected teenage abuse cases,” she said. Deputy Director for child abuse and neglect services said more needs to be done to stop child abuse and teenage pregnancy in the country. “ As a department we are concerned about the levels of teenage pregnancy as revealed in the department of health report. For this child protection month, we will be focusing on strengthening services with regard to awareness and education,” Nyoni said