By: Siyabonga Sithole The Central Karoo is open for business and President of the Patriotic Alliance and Mayor, Gayton McKenzie who is celebrating his 100 days in office on July 21 has urged local businesses and those from outside to invest in Beaufort West by opening  businesses in the area. “We are open for business and we will not even ask you for a bribe. No one will ask for brown envelopes from you because we want you to bring your businesses here. For farmers we have land and we will not even ask you to pay rent as long as you are prepared to give our people jobs,” he said. On Saturday, the party hosted a fundraising gala dinner event held at the Sandton Hotel where the party managed to raise R1 million towards fixing potholes, swimming pools  and bringing an end to pit toilets in Central Karoo where McKenzie is a Mayor following  the recent local government elections. On Sunday, the businessman turned politician took to Facebook and hosted a Live session under the theme: ‘ tenders, jobs and opportunities in all municipalities where the Patriotic  Alliance co- governs through coalitions and where it governs alone. McKenzie, who since becoming the executive mayor of the Central Karoo District  has declined perks and a salary that comes with his position, opting instead to use the money to improve services of his municipality and district, said leaders should be humble and accessible to the people they serve. “Let me tell you about last night. We managed to raise R1 million rand through the fundraising event and we also managed to raise another R2 million outside this. We need at least R3,5 million and we at least  were able to raise R3 million for the things that we want to do. This money is going to help us take care of the small things such as fixing potholes, swimming pools and put an end to pit toilets. We can't have our people using blankets and going to the veldt when they need the toilet. Our people deserve dignity,” McKenzie said in his opening address. The fast-taking leader of the Patriotic Alliance said the days of being a politician who wants to feel important at the expense of citizens are over and warned members of the party to remain accessible to the ordinary people whether they ate members of the party or not. “When we go door-to-door, we do not make appointments with our people. Why should they need to make an appointment when they want to see us. I hate that. With me there are no appointments. You just have to be patient as I might be in a meeting otherwise there is no need to make an appointment to see me. Otherwise  It is first come first served,” he said. Ahead of his first 100 days in office, which will be celebrated through a big bash in July, McKenzie said he will like to celebrate it in style while also ensuring that the area becomes vibrant with new possibilities. “ I know that the media has made bookings to see me for the 100 days, but we have decided to move this celebration to July 21 and they must book that weekend as we will have a bug celebration. We want to show politicians how leaders should behave.  How I behave is how all leaders should behave. There will be lots of food. We will unveil swimming pools, fix potholes and put an end to pit toilets. McKenzie added that Central Karoo was not poor but under explored which is why it is working hard to secure investment for the area so that it becomes attractive to do business there. “ We can’t be grant dependent. It is not that Central Karoo is poor but under-explored. We want to host our own energy Indaba  and we are inviting big energy farms and solar energy businesses to come and invest in us. I have friends in construction and other industries and there is also another one who wants to build a silicon valley of sorts and have raised about R300 million towards this. We want them to come to Central Karoo,” he said.