It is  no doubt that since the year 2022 started it has been shrouded by heart-wrenching news of all the losses that the entertainment industry has had to bear.  We are halfway through the year and the list of talented people and pioneers that South Africans have had to say goodbye to remains surreal. In January South Africa woke up to the news that legendary actor Patrick Shai had taken his life at his Soweto home. Shai was popular on screens for numerous roles and many remembered him for his immeasurable contribution to the arts. February was not an easy month get to through after three deaths were confirmed. It was announced that Sabelo “DJ Citi Lytes” Mkhize died after being shot several times in Soweto. Mkhize was a younger brother of the late iconic rapper Linda “Prokid” Mkhize. The musician was known as the star behind hits such as “Vurra” and “Shishiliza”. In the same month, media personality Kuli Roberts died. It is believed that a close friend revealed to City Press that Kuli collapsed on the set of her new show. “She arrived on set around 19:00, where they were filming with other artists. She collapsed,” the friend reportedly told City Press. Roberts was known for her devotion to the world of fashion and beauty. She also built a name for herself in the media industry as a television host, a TV presenter, a great journalist, and radio host. February also saw popular music icon Rikhado “Riky Rick” Makhado taking his own life after battling with his mental health for a long time. The announcement of his death sent social platforms into a meltdown, with many reeling in shock. Not only was Riky a well-known music star but he was also a trendsetter in the world of fashion. Barely a month passed when the entertainment industry had to accept the untimely death of Boitumelo Mooi, who was fondly known DJ Dimplez. He passed away on March 6,  after suffering a sudden brain haemorrhage. The award-winning DJ was also known as someone focused on developing and pushing hip hop talent in South Africa. In early May news broke that talented Siyabonga Zubane took his own life at the age of 23. Zubane was popular for his role as Sdumo in Mzansi Magic’s telenovela “Gomora”. His colleagues and many of those who knew him praised Zubane for his wide contribution to the entertainment industry. Iconic gospel singer Deborah Fraser’s sudden death following a short illness left many reeling in shock. In a statement, her family confirmed her passing on Sunday,  May 15.  “It is with deep sadness we inform you of the passing of our beloved mother, sister, aunt and friend, and gospel musician, Deborah Fraser following a short illness. She passed on today (Sunday) after midday, in the presence of her family and friends.” A few days ago it was revealed that popular thespian Jamie Bartlett, who was known for his portrayal of David Genaro on “Rhythm City”, died after suffering cardiac arrest. Bartlett was hailed as one of the most distinguished “villains” that Mzansi had ever seen. The actor had many accolades under his belt as a result of his remarkable work.