Google has released data showing some fascinating insights into what the most clicked-on destinations were in South Africa and globally over the past year. In commemoration of 15 years since Google Street View was launched, Google Maps released data which shows the most clicked-on beaches, museums and general points of interest in South Africa over the past 12 months. “In the 15 years since its launch, Google Street View has come a long way. From going under water to capture the Great Barrier Reef in 2012, being available in VR in 2015, to exploring the ‘Top of the World’ in Canada in 2017, Street View has achieved incredible milestones.  “Today, it has expanded to more than 100 countries and territories around the world and captured more than 10 million miles of imagery – a distance that could circle the globe more than 400 times!,” Google said Cape Town’s Boulders Beach, known for its colony of African penguins, was the most clicked-on beach in South Africa over the past year, followed by Hole in the Wall in Coffee Bay, Eastern Cape and Kreeftebaai in Cape Town, Western Cape. Doonside Beach in in Kingsburgh, KwaZulu-Natal came in fourth and Noordhoek Beach in Cape Town fifth.  The Apartheid Museum in Johannesburg south was the most clicked-on museum in South Africa, with the Iziko Bo-Kaap Museum in Cape Town's culturally rich district of Bo-Kaap and Nelson Mandela’s house in Soweto, coming in second and third. The Robben Island Museum was fourth followed by the Jan Smuts House Museum in Centurion.  “Landmarks, nature reserves and national parks took up the top three most clicked on places of interest in the country. For those seeking breathtaking views, The Cape of Good Hope garnered the most clicks on Street View. New Cape Point Lighthouse and the Kruger National Park ranked second and third on the list,” Google said.  Internationally, the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, received the most clicks for any other place of interest, followed by the Eiffel Tower in Paris, France and the Taj Mahal in India.  @Chulu_M  chulumanco.mahamba@inl.co.za