Motorists and residents of Randburg and the West Rand have been warned about an increase in the number of hijackings at certain intersections. West Rand District police spokesperson Captain Solomon Sibiya has warned residents concerning an increase in the number of car and truck hijackings on the N12, R28, R559 and N14. “The West Rand police would like to urge motorists or truck drivers to be more cautious and not be fooled by people dressed in police or traffic uniform,” they said. Sibiya noted that the suspects operated in groups of two, three, four or even five men as well as a coloured woman. “They use either a white Toyota Hilux double cab and/or a white VW Polo and dress in traffic (police) uniforms,” he said. The Fidelity Services Group said that it was also noted that the hijackers used a blue light mounted on the dashboard of their vehicle. “Victims who believe they are dealing with bona fide police officials are held up against their will and dropped off in different areas around Gauteng,” the group said. Specific red alert areas included Bekkersdal on the R28 Road and the N12, Carletonville on Blybank Road and Randfontein Road, Fochville on the corner of the N12 and R500 and Randfontein on the R559, R28 and N14. A similar warning was issued last week by Randburg station commander Brigadier Michelle Jones concerning a disturbing increase in the number of hijackings at certain intersections. Jones noted the specific red alert areas including Malibongwe Street and N1 both on- and off-ramps, as well as the William Nicol on- and off-ramps, including the stretch of N1 North and South between Malibongwe and William Nicol roads. According to Jones, the suspects operated in a group of two to four and used a white Ford Ranger and/or a white VW Polo with a blue light. The other vehicles were blue/white/silver Toyota Corollas, a grey Nissan Navara and Nissan Almera. Jones said victims who believed they were dealing with police officials were also held up against their will and dropped off in various areas around Gauteng. Fidelity Services Group chief executive Wahl Bartmann said the theft of motor vehicles and of motor vehicle parts had also been flagged and cautioned motorists. “When at a shopping centre or out visiting, always park inside your perimeter security if possible, and if not, ensure you do not leave any valuables in the vehicles if you are parked on the pavement. Rather keep these in the boot. Ensure your vehicle is locked at all times,” Bartmann said. He said that the growing use of a remote jamming device to block or jam the locking mechanism of motor vehicles had unfortunately become an everyday occurrence. “Always check that the car is locked by testing the door. Don’t assume that by pressing the remote locking that your car is locked. If you are out at night, always park your car in a visible, well-lit area where there is security,” Bartmann said. @Chulu_M