JOHANNESBURG – Top African scientists Professor Tulio de Oliveira and Dr Sikhulile Moyo were recognised for their work in genomics and epidemiology after they were selected for this year’s TIME 100 Most Influential People list. The annual TIME 100 Most Influential People list features individuals who made the most significant contributions to our world, as identified and voted for by the publication’s international network of editors, thought leaders and past recipients. The scientists are listed in the Pioneers category of the list for being recognised for their work in the field of genomics and epidemiology.  In November 2021, de Oliveira, director of South Africa’s Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation and Moyo, laboratory director for the Botswana-­Harvard HIV Reference Laboratory, led the multidisciplinary team who discovered the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, which quickly became the dominant variant of the virus globally. Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) director, John Nkengasong, in his citation for de Oliveira and Moyo, said scientists in Africa have been monitoring and sequencing pathogens since long before the pandemic and the world benefited from this network when scientists, including Moyo and de Oliveira identified and reported the emergence of the Omicron variant last November. “It was a transformational moment and a shift in paradigm—one that for me symbolised that excellence in science can originate in Africa,” Nkengasong wrote. He added that every generation has people who inspire subsequent generations. “Sikhulile and Tulio have the potential to be that for people who will work in public health and genomics. We have not seen the end of their contributions,” Nkengasong said. Stellenbosch University (SU) celebrated the historical achievement of the scientists who are associated with the university. De Oliveira is a professor of Bioinformatics holding a joint appointment at SU’s School for Data Science and Computational Thinking, the Faculty of Science and the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences. Moyo, in turn, is an SU alumnus who obtained his PhD in Medical Virology at the University in 2016. “This acknowledgement by TIME magazine proves that Africa’s cutting-edge research has a global impact, and further establishes Prof De Oliveira and Dr Moyo as international leaders in their field,” said Prof Wim de Villiers, SU’s Rector and Vice-Chancellor. The Star