The cost of living has proven to be very high and will plunge ordinary South Africans  into more debt and poverty due to fuel increases. The petrol price is expected to increase by between R2.27 to R2.37 a litre on  June 1, which could see the price of a litre reach R25. Founding director of Strangé Consulting Miranda Lusiba said the constant increases of food and fuel made it difficult for people to plan or budget. “Even if people are trying to live within their means, the increases make it difficult. I think the salaries we make as small businesses are not enough anymore to take care of our basic needs and it also means that we have to cut out a lot of luxuries and just stick to basics because there is no money to spoil yourself even though we work hard,” said Lusiba. She said she was worried that a lot of people would go to bed with empty stomachs and crime might increase because of people trying to survive. Taxi driver Zakhele Mkhize said the government should intervene and do its best not to allow further fuel increases which he said hurt their business which was struggling already. The taxi industry is one of those which was hard hit by the Covid-19 pandemic and now the further fuel increases are affecting it badly. Mkhize operates on a route from Thokoza to Johannesburg which costs R22 a passenger. “Passengers pay R22, that is very low and it’s hurting our pockets badly; with that money one cannot return loads, sometimes we even have to add our own earnings to put in petrol. “The money that passengers are paying is not enough due to the fuel increase, we are already struggling to make money to sustain our businesses, and as if that is not enough, some passengers have resorted to walking or (join) lift clubs which is killing our business,” Mkhize said. Richard Mdlalose, a Kagiso resident, said the fuel increase would force taxi fare increase which he said he might not afford. “This increase is going to badly affect me. I graduated recently and got my first job; already the taxi is expensive. I am concerned that I might not be able to commute to work,” said Mdlalose. Gugu Tshablalala, a resident from Pretoria East, said she travelled to and from work in  the Johannesburg CBD every day and the fuel increase would affect her pocket badly. “I am worried that soon we will not be able to afford to buy fuel, food and other important things we need to survive. The fuel increase is due to bad leadership, whatever the government does we as ordinary people suffer more,” said Tshabalala. Another Pretoria resident, Tumi Moloi, who is in the marketing industry, said everything was increasing except for salary. “I feel like there is a food and fuel hike, but there is no salary increase. Meaning, we have to find other means of income to be able to keep afloat. My stress is what can I do more to make more money to be able to afford my livelihood,” said Moloi. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za