The tragic murder of another gender-based violence victim Namhla Mtwa has sparked a public outcry to get #JusticeForHlehle and bring the killer to book. The murder of Singwa Namhla Mtwa, 35, has again cast a spotlight on the gender-based violence pandemic in South Africa. This comes after Mtwa was allegedly shot and murdered inside her car by an unknown suspect when she arrived at her Sidwadwa based home in Mthatha on April 21.  She suffered gunshot wounds in her upper body and was declared dead at the scene, Eastern Cape SAPS confirmed. The heartbroken sister of the victim, Sanga Nozintathu Mtwa, took to social media in a plea to get justice for her sister. This plea sparked a public outcry as #JusticeForHlehle and #JusticeForNamhla trended on social media. The hashtags prompted other alleged victims of gender-based violence to share their personal stories. “My sister was brutally killed by a man in the driveway of her home. She was shot with nine bullets and died on the spot. No arrest was made, no suspect, no one was brought in for questioning,” one of Sanga’s posts read. Sanga alleged that her sister was in an abusive relationship with her long-term partner of 17 years and that the partner was a “connected” businessman. The man, however, denied the allegation that he was behind the murder of his girlfriend, News24 reported. “I am tired of acting like I don't know what life my sister was living. We feared for her life. She thought one day she will walk out freely from the abuse. My sister was abused emotionally, physically and financially,” her post read. The grieving sister also shared numerous videos and pictures of Mtwa covered in bruises as well as screenshots of messages allegedly between Mtwa and her family speaking about the alleged abuse she had endured that went viral. In response to the public outcry, SAPS Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Nomthetheleli Mene, appointed a senior manager at the level of a Brigadier to oversee the case. “Members of the family and the public are therefore assured that Namhla’s case is in the hands of capable and professionally trained detectives,” Mene said on Saturday.  “With the support and response demonstrated by the community and various formations in every corner of our province and outside its borders, we are optimistic that a breakthrough in this particular case will be made.  “An appeal is also made that whoever possesses critical information that will add value to the work of the investigating team and further lead to the arrest of the suspect, should please share it with the lead investigator,” Mene said. SAPS spokesperson Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana added that the police appreciated the response of members of the public who out of concern for issues related to gender-based violence and femicide, approached the police with information. “Anyone who may be able to assist in the investigation by sharing information that will lead to the positive identification and arrest of the suspect is requested to contact the lead investigating officer, Brigadier Venetia Masingi, at 082 040 6751 or call Crime Stop 08600 10111,” Kinana  said. Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane called on the police to swifty investigate the allegations of gender-based violence and femicide in relation to Mtwa’s death. “Someone must answer for the vicious killing of this young woman. We must also find answers to the images that we have seen in the past 24 hours which show that before her death, she was exposed to all manner of barbaric acts,” Mabuyane said. “We must also do everything in our power to ensure that no other young woman suffers the same fate that has befallen Namhla. Let us raise our voices louder and sharper against all manner of violence perpetrated against women.” Meanwhile, the EFF in the Eastern Cape is expected to march to the Mthatha central police station on Wednesday to demand answers on Mtwa’s death. @Chulu_M Chulumanco.Mahamba@inl.co.za