JOHANNESBURG – A petition with more than 31 000 signatures against the R22 million flag project was formally submitted today to Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Sports, Arts and Culture. After the controversial news of the Department of Sports, Arts and Culture’s R22m flag project broke, many artists, concerned citizens, political parties and civil organisations questioned the value of the monumental flag, saying the money should be used for building playgrounds or improving sports facilities. Amid the rising criticism, Sports, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa decided to review the project. One concerned citizen, Nadia Bantom, started a petition on Change.org against it proceeding. “South Africa is the most unequal country in the whole wide world. We believe there is so much more that can be done with this R22 million. Quite a few RDP houses can be built. Quite a few students’ tuition can be paid. Some roads can be refurbished,” Bantom wrote in the petition. The petition has over 31 000 signatures and was formally submitted on Monday to the parliamentary committee, according to Change.org. In her submission, Bantom states that: “Minister Nathi Mthethwa has not only failed to adequately explain the exorbitant cost of the flag, but has, for years, dismally failed to support the beneficiaries of his department.” Bantom is calling on Parliament to exercise its oversight function and compel the department and Mthethwa to reverse the budget allocation towards the flag project. “Oversee the department’s reallocation of the R22m by impressing upon it to call for a public participation/engagement process, through which the needs of the beneficiaries of that department are identified in order of priority; and monitor and request a progress report from the department, which is to be published for public viewing, on the implementation of the reallocated R22m in accordance with the needs identified through the public participation/engagement process,” she submitted. The Star