By Benedict Xolani Dube Dante Alighieri says “the path to paradise begins in hell.” Wasn’t it a wonderful  start to 2018 Jacob Zuma was no more than a horrible, festering memory as Cyril  Ramaphosa rode to our rescue. The ANC 101 Veterans garbed in a dishdasha of  sham morality and ethics deceitfully led people to sing “Hosanna in the highest  heaven”. The Pharisees concocted a gospel crusade that Cyril is the Messiah. He  will deliver salvation. The New Deal became the doctrine of the New Dawn.  COSATU and the SACP, precisely as they did with Zuma, collapsed in a sobbing  heap at the feet of Cyril. The deluded people prostrated themselves in his path..  Yes, the New Dawn has arrived. The thievery of the ANC was behind us. As St  Julian of Norwich, the first published feminist martyr, observed back in 1395 “It  behoved that there should be sin; but all shall be well and all shall be well, and all  manner of thing shall be well”. The thieving rotters would be exposed, the ill gotten gains confiscated and their sorry carcasses thrown into jail to rot. A well-rehearsed orchestra of falsehood, tuned in a chorus of fork tongue, was  unbridled with references to Cyril as Nelson Mandela’s reincarnation. A raging  hysteria reverberated throughout the country as people sang “Zizojika’Izinto”. Class consciousness citizens decoded its covert meaning. It signified a turn to eat  for Zuma’s political victims, arch- enemies, professional backstabbers and  comprador bourgeoisie. In turn, the Minerals Energy Complex (MEC) ripped off its veil, unprecedentedly  and overtly campaigning for Cyril as its preferred ANC presidential candidate.  Oligarchy representatives stormed the Orlando East Community Hall in Soweto,  chaperoned by Cyril and Parks Tau. True to form, the R25 ANC card-carrying  members ululated. The hall filled with nostalgic struggle songs and polemic  slogans. ANC members, consumed by excitement of free t-shirts and food, once  again allowed the ruling elite to impose its economic manifesto upon the ANC. Ramaphosa unveiled a “New Deal” under the hawk-eyes of Stephen Koseff,  former Chief Executive Officer of Investec Group, First Rand’s Johan Burger and  Goldman Sachs’ Colin Coleman. The hall was filled with the omnipresence of  Nicholas F. Oppenheimer and Ivan Glasenberg, Chief Executive Officer of  Glencore. Objectively, going through the plan with a fine toothcomb, one  discerns Tito’s Economic Manifesto as the New Deal. It is a concoction of voodoo economics that fuses Thatcherism and Reaganomics: a thorough- going classic  neoliberal, socio-economic policy. The top six results of the 54th  ANC Conference (otherwise known as the valley of  nothingness) was a well thought through conspiracy in the history of ANC politics.  The valley of nothingness became another never ending proxy battle between  SA’s historical oligarchy and other external forces challenging South Africa’s  status quo. Cyril’s election solidified and fortified the homogeneous power of the  white oligarchy. The historical objectives of ANC were to be locked in a mirage. Consequently, all economic resolutions adopted in that valley of nothingness, like  others, are stockpiled in the dungeon of doom at Luthuli House. The historically  dispossessed shall continue to be the exploited refugees under the terrifying  dictatorship of Minerals Energy Complex. Cyril is an embodiment of South Africa’s 1994 Faustian Pact, which Patrick Bond  refers to as an ‘Elite Transition’. Ramaphosa is the cotton thread woven into the  tapestry of this 1994 Faustian Pact. He is the guard to keep SA as apartheid  Panopticon prison where hopes of dehumanized are locked in a solitary  confinement. Moreover, the MEC has groomed and mentored him to be the  Judas goat. A Judas Goat is a ‘trained goat which is used in animal herding. It is  trained to associate with sheep or cattle, leading them into the slaughterhouse  while its own life is spared.’ Ideologically, a Judas goat is akin to the comprador bourgeoisie that Mao Tse Tung describes as ‘...a running dog of imperialism...and  a target of the revolution.’ Allegations against Cyril pertaining to the Marikana Massacre have crystallized  the role of this comprador-bourgeoisie. He gave credence to those allegations. In the voice of Chief Nanga, the main character in a satirical piece by Chinua  Achebe’s A Man of the People, Cyril in thunderous voice shouts: “Mama, you are  gone now. We were still supposed to do a lot of things together. I am going to go  to Marikana without you, but I will be guided by your spirit...” Consistent with his  stony heart, he threw dust in the mourners’ eyes. The victims of Black government  brutality still hang on hope. An apology is not forthcoming. The silence of the ANC  101 Veterans is deafening. The crusade to restore a moral, ethical and empathic  ANC leadership was a theatrical gimmick. Hence, the ANC 101 Veterans are not  demanding Cyril to honour his commitment to the victims of Marikana. Paraphrasing William Shakespeare: ‘God hath given Cyril Ramaphosa one face  and he make himself another for South Africans especially for the Africans.’ The  Janus-faced nature of Cyril Ramaphosa is captured by Earl Love, a Trinidadian  novelist, in the prologue of his book, The Dragon Can’t Dance, when he tells of a  leader that instructed his followers: “Crucify me! Let me die for my people. Stone  me with stones as you stone Jesus, I will love you still.’ And when they start to stone  him in truth he gets vex and start to cuss: ‘Get me down Get me down!’ he says.  ‘Let every sinner man bear his own blasted burden; who is I to die for people who  ain’t have sense enough to know that they can’t pelt a man with big stones when  so much little pebbles lying on the ground.’” What type of a Messiah is Cyril? Why  aren’t he and his swindlers being pelted with big stones of truth? Chief Albert  Luthuli taught us all that salvation is through the cross. Cyril must comprehend the  holistic task of carrying the cross on behalf of South Africans. Let us cast our minds back to Heather Hughes’ premonition, in her book First  President: A Life of John Dube, Founding President of the ANC, when she quotes  John Dube saying: “Where there was once a pool, water will collect again.” In  the twinkle of an eye, SA has been engulfed by Cyril’s coup d'œil dark side. We  are submerged in CR17 conference payments, Cyril’s business relations with  BOSASA and a skewed politics of energy. State Institutions are still weapons of  ANC factionalism and the ANC is miring South Africa into scenes straight out of  George Orwells’ Animal Farm. Others are extremely more equal than others. Pragmatism prevails among South Africans who are now used to deducing truth  from facts. This is the cardinal principle of science which lies at the heart of  materialist dialectics. They know that the past twenty-five years of shameful pitfalls  is stewed in the three-legged pot of a SACP, COSATU and ANC alliance. Like the child in Hans Christian Andersen’s literary folktale “The Emperor’ New  Clothes”, South Africans are shouting louder and bolder, ‘But he (Cyril) isn’t  wearing anything at all’. The media, the crooked-spine middle class, the Minerals  Energy Complex (SA ruling elite), ANC 101 Veterans and ‘Cyril’s dogs of war’ and  all those who have erected a fortress around Cyril are beginning to lose face.  People are questioning his invisible garb. The Germans have a saying: "Lügen  haben kurze Beine", meaning ‘lies don't make it very far’. Ordinary citizens have  chiselled to the ground Cyril, the Ozymandias of false moral and ethical  leadership. He is a failed leader, feasting on the hot air of rhetoric that ‘we shall  confiscate all the ill-gotten gains and throw their sorry carcasses into jail to rot’. The Great Expectations of the New Dawn have developed into a phantom  pregnancy. People are weeping for the beloved country that is being turned into  a Land that God Made in Anger, while Cyril’s swindlers are anointing themselves  as society’s future villains. In compartmentalizing and stigmatizing those citizens  who respect Edward Said’s counsel of speaking truth to power, he has labelled  them as fight-back regiments, disingenuous and unpatriotic. Ngugi wa Thiong’o, a Kenyan intellectual and writer who refused to be silenced  said, “Certain people told me that this story was too disgraceful too shameful,  that it should be concealed.... There were others who claimed that it was a matter  for tears and sorrow, that it should be suppressed so that we should not shed tears  a second time. I asked them: How can we cover up pits in our courtyard with  leaves or grass, saying to ourselves that because our eyes cannot now see the  holes, our children can prance about the yard as they like? Happy is the man who  is able to discern the pitfalls in his path for he can avoid them.” South Africa dare  not bend the truth even if we must perish. Cyril is ‘President’ of an organization  whose post-apartheid legacy is archived in the Zondo Commission, the Public  Investment Corporation (PIC) Commission of Inquiry, Nuget Commission of Inquiry  into Tax Administration and Governance by SARS and Mokgoro Commission of  Inquiry. Evidently, the ANC is an incubator of scoundrels. A den of ossified soiled  souls. Professor Ben Okri, poet, novelist and one of the foremost African writers in the  post-modern and post-colonial tradition has written: “African nations started in  dreams, became overwhelmed by reality and stumbled upon a  nightmare....Africa has surely made enough mistakes for us to learn from....greater  the mistakes, greater the lessons to learn from...It is now how things are that  counts, it is what you do with them....” Agreeing with Ngugi, Okri outlines the  immaculateness of an African dream which is exterminated by our failure to be  frank and honest when confronting societal ills. South Africans dare not bury their heads in the sand while the future of the next generation and the prosperity of  this country are being devoured. Cyril is no Messiah: he is from the same institution  that gave us Zuma, Malema and all the others who continue to swallow up the  finite resources of our country meant for future generations. South African subalterns must answer Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak’s question “Can  the Subaltern Speak” Joseph Schumpeter’s theory of creative destruction could  be answer. The mythical ANC must be destroyed and the foundations of the 1994  Faustian Pact shall fall. Cyril the thread keeps this pact alive must be pelted with  stones until he reaches Calvary. In the meantime, a new man and a new nation  must rise for the sake of the next generation. Or else all of us collectively shall  perish. However, we can take comfort in Dante Alighieri’s words: “The  Subaltern, meaning ‘of inferior rank’, is a term adopted by Antonio Gramsci to refer to  those groups in society who are subject to the hegemony of the ruling class. Subaltern  classes may include peasants, workers and other groups denied access to hegemonic  power. -The path to  paradise begins in hell.” Let us go through hell! Benedict Xolani Dube is a political scientist with the Xubera Institute for research and Development