Child author and child rights activist Stacey Fru has been elected into the Johannesburg Student Council Executive. The multiple-award-winning learner, book enthusiast, community builder and internationally recognised child rights activist was voted as Junior MMC for Community Development in the City of Johannesburg Student Council for the next two years on the weekend of May 3. The 15-year-old is the current face of the AU and the International Labour Organization (ILO) 2021 International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour, according to her foundation. Her first book, titled Smelly Cats, was published when she was 7. The Johannesburg Student Council has more than 100 high school learners, who are youth representatives, deal with youth-related issues and speak on behalf of the youth to the government. During the two years of office, the Student Council Executive has opportunities to learn about government duties and responsibilities.  Prior to the elections, the executives went through a leadership conference and participated in team-building activities. The elections were declared fair and free by a committee of vote counters. Asked how she feels about her new role, Fru said: “I am excited that as an activist this opportunity fulfils my dreams of working with the government to uplift African children.” The position of Junior MMC for Community Development will benefit Fru, who has been working with communities under her foundation since she was 8 years old. The Stacey Fru Foundation empowers and encourages children and adults alike to learn how to read and write. Its initiatives include creating partnerships that aim to elevate the African child, buying Fru’s books and donating them to schools, institutions and libraries, and seeking pledges and donations that enable her to travel to schools in rural areas and/or transport rural children to the cities for specific foundation activities. Meanwhile, Fru recently held the positions of director and president of an education-focused tech company, AfroStory, along with six adult team members and 10 shareholders. The 15-year-old is the youngest member on the board of the company and one of the few South African teenagers to lead a company not founded by herself. @Chulu_M chulumanco.mahamba@inl.co.za