Siyabonga Sithole Opposition parties such as the Democratic Alliance(DA) and Congress of the People (COPE) have decried the impact the impending R3 fuel increase will have on ordinary South Africans. This comes after the government's temporary relief on  fuel price increases for two months are reported to be coming to an end this month after  the government decided to freeze certain  levies for the months of April and May to protect overburdened  consumers. However, reports that the petrol price will increase by R3 and more has renewed calls for the government to act against the impending increases which will affect South Africans who are already feeling the pinch of a stagnant economy and rising food prices. Dennis Bloem of Cope in a statement said the huge increases in the price of fuel and crippling load shedding will further destroy the country's struggling economy further than it has already done, adding that this will take the country further into the precipice of disaster. “South Africa is heading for a serious economic disaster with serious consequences that can lead to an uprising if the Government does not urgently intervene. The planned fuel increases and the on-going devastating loadshedding will undoubtedly further destroy the already struggling economy,” Bloem said Bloem added that the party is deeply concerned about the escalating fuel prices and called the government to rethink the negative impact of yet another increase that will take a litre of petrol to an unprecedented R25 or more a litre. “Government must think very hard about the negative impact these fuel increases will have on workers who are using public transport to their places of work. We can expect that fares of public transport will rise. Motorists and everybody will feel the pain of the fuel increase. Not a single one will be spared, rich and poor, but the poor who are already struggling to make ends meet will be the hardest hit. “The planned fuel increases will also have a very devastating impact on the farmers. We can therefore expect a rise in food prices. Poverty and hunger will increase. The consequence of the crisis that the country is facing, will worsen and the unemployment figures, many workers will lose their jobs, and the crime rate will also rise,” the party said. COPE said it is urging the government to further extend the current fuel levy…for another 90 days while it considers alternative ways to solve the current fuel increase problem. Meanwhile, the DA in a statement slammed the government  for not pronouncing on the  fuel price increase with less than 40 days to go before the start of the new month which comes with fuel price increases and proposed its own measures in alleviating the situation on ordinary South Africans. “ Without the announcement of June fuel price hikes having yet been made, the DA repeats on demands to the ANC government  to end the exorbitant taxes on fuel and show some care to the people of South Africa by extending temporary relief measures on fuel levy currently R1,50; scrapping fuel levy currently to save R3,93 per litre; allowing drivers out of unnecessary R2,18 road accident fund levy and deregulating the full price immediately,  so that competition can drive down prices,” the DA Said in a statement. The DA further stated that it had managed to collect over 70, 000 signatures to its letter to the energy and finance ministers to demand that they act against rising fuel price hikes ahead of the June announcement.