Johannesburg - A muti killer in UZZI gear have angered social media users who associated the brand to criminals. The brand UZZI is at it again, trending for the wrong reasons, this time for a self-confessed muti killer who is appearing at a Mpumalanga court today. Over the years, the brand has been notorious of being worn by suspects who commit serious crimes, including rape, murder, hijack and many more. This time, a 25-year-old man is trending on different social media platforms where he was caught by community members, who forced him to confess amid the gruesome murder of 6-year-old Bontle Mashiyane and four other little girls from Mganduzweni in Masoyi, Mpumalanga. The Neighbors are the ones who kidnapped that 6 years old girl #justicefornamhla pic.twitter.com/6qiD3Ub5QZ Mashiyane had been missing for three weeks before the discovery of her badly mutilated body.  The suspect and two others are appearing at Kabokweni Magistrate’s Court in connection with the murder of Mashiyane. Mpumalanga Premier Refilwe Mtsweni expressed shock at the brutal murder of Mashiyane. “The child has been murdered by a neighbour and a neighbour and the boyfriend. Both the perpetrators are next door neighbours. Mashiyane used to play with their 10-year-old child. I stand here defeated that the master mind behind the killing is a woman, a person who is expected to care and nourish the children is the one who orchestrated this grousing murder against a child,” Mtsweni said. She further said: “If she can do that, what was she thinking at the time in the 21 days of waking up every morning going to bed, looking at this family just next door to her and pretending as if everything is normal. She did not even have decency to go and confess and tell them the truth so that they too can get closure.” Mtsweni said the female suspect was part of people going out with the family in their quest to find their child. “This is not the first murder that they are committing within the street. They have confessed to other four children in the street. Amongst the four children, this one is the fifth child, two of them are her sisters. Now, you ask yourself: what kind of a woman is this one? Why would she go the extra mile to please izangoma by killing innocent souls within our community?” said Mtsweni. Community members were seen outside court demanding that the suspects do not get bail. #uzzi#univenmustfall @OperationDudula @MEB40122141 @ArnoldMpawu @bigblack_bullet What I know is this is a signature gear for robbers at night. If you wearing this jersey you safe from being mugged pic.twitter.com/FABS3udpNl Twitter user Lethu Dlams wrote: “At this rate, police should arrest anyone wearing UZZI coz it's either they've committed a crime or they are on their way to commit one.” User Khalees Cleo wrote: “Stop dating men who wear UZZI, enough is enough.” User Skhokho wrote: “Maybe if we close down UZZI stores the crime rate will drop… Just a suggestion.” ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za The Star