Siyabonga Sithole The Department of Correctional Services has placed Sindisiwe Precious Manqele, who was jailed for murdering her rap star boyfriend “Flabba”, on parole.  Manqele, who was arrested in 2015 after she stabbed her then rapper boyfriend, Nkuli “Flabba” Habedi, to death following a case of alleged domestic violence, has been released from prison due to her positive behaviour and good support system. Manqele was arrested in 2016 and her parole comes after she served six years of her 12-year prison sentence, which according to the rules governing parole conditions, a prisoner qualifies for after serving at least 50% of their sentence. The department indicated that Manqele was eligible for early release from prison, having fulfilled a list of requirements needed for consideration as of May 24, it said in a media statement. “The Department of Correctional Services (DCS) is able to confirm the Ms Sindisiwe Precious Manqele has been placed on parole, effectively from 24 May, 2022. “The decision was taken by the correctional supervision and parole board (CSPB) having assessed Manqele’s profile as submitted by the case, a management committee and other materials presented for the purposes of parole consideration,” the statement reads. The Correctional Services board says Manqele’s support system and her positive attitude were instrumental in the board’s decision to grant her early parole. “In arriving at the decision, the CSPB further took into consideration that Ms Manqele has a positive support system. Her parole is in line with Section 73 of the Correctional Services Act, which determines the minimum period of service that must be served before consideration may be granted for possible placement,” the statement said.  Also in her favour is her admission of guilt and the fact that she took responsibility for her actions and showed remorse and regret for her actions. During the court proceedings, Manqele admitted to her crime, saying that she had stabbed the rapper intentionally in order to escape from him, adding that the stabbing was an act of self-defence after Habedi had pinned her on the bed and choked her in the process. Correctional Services spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo said the parole did not mean that Manqele was free to do as she pleased as she still had to fulfil a series of obligations until her sentence ended in May 2028. “She still has to comply with a specific set of conditions and will be subject to supervision until her sentence expires on 23 May 2028 whereby she will still have to complete the remainder of the sentence in the system community corrections, “ Nxumalo added. The Star