Primary school learners have created striking murals and art saying no to tobacco through a Schools Mural Art Competition, in commemoration of World No Tobacco Day on Tuesday. The competition forms part of the Department of Health’s ‘Sibo Manqoba!’ tobacco education initiative, which aims to raise awareness of tobacco and e-cigarette harms, including harm to the environment. The teams of learners were asked to produce artwork in the form of murals or other creative pieces with a theme that focused on tobacco harm; why quitting tobacco makes you a winner; or how tobacco influences your school community and environment. Dr Tshimi Lynn Moeng-Mahlangu, Chief Director: Health Promotion, Nutrition, Oral Health in the Department of Health said she has been impressed by the response from participating schools. “It has been amazing how the children express the dangers of tobacco through artwork. Through this creative process, we hope that learners, educators and the broader communities are becoming more aware of the risks of tobacco and nicotine products and the importance of the new Tobacco Control Bill. Active, educated communities are so important in the fight against tobacco and we look forward to continuing with tobacco education initiatives in other communities across South Africa,” said Dr. Moeng-Mahlangu. The winning finalists of the competition include Sharonlea Primary School in Randburg, Park Primary School in Lenasia and Zibambele Park Primary School in Soweto. Dr Sharon Nyatsanza, Deputy Director of the National Council Against Smoking, said that to be most effective, school-based programs must target young persons before they initiate tobacco use. “It is vital to reach younger children before they start smoking. More than 80% of smokers smoked their first cigarette in their teens, and most smokers wish they had never started. Second-hand smoke also increases the risk of many diseases for children, such as cancers, respiratory diseases and ear infections,” said Nyatsanza. The overall winner of the competition will be announced on Friday at an event that forms part of a week of activities marking World No Tobacco Day on 31 May and each of the winning schools will be awarded R10,000 towards a nominated wishlist of needs.