The police are hot on the heels of jailed notorious killer ex-cop Rosemary Ndlovu's co-accused in her fresh charges. The co-accused has failed for over a month to hand himself over to authorities to stand trial along Ndlovu for conspiracy to kill charges. Ndlovu gained notoriety during her serial murders trial last year, which culminated in her six life sentences imprisonment. The allegedly on the run co-accused was charged with Ndlovu on one of two conspiracy to murder cases she faced. Prosecutor Riana Williams asked for postponement yesterday to give the police a chance to execute a warrant of arrest against Ndlovu’s “on the run” co-accused.  Williams revealed that the warrant of arrest was obtained. Ndlovu appeared briefly at the dock yesterday with Nomsa Mudau, her co-accused in one case. Mudau is accused of conspiring with the imprisoned Ndlovu to have her husband, Justice Mudau, killed. In a similar pattern to the crimes that landed Ndlovu behind bars, her husband was allegedly to be killed for an insurance payout. A friend of Ndlovu’s and former fellow cop stationed in Thembisa, Mudau was married to Justice when he learnt of the plot to kill him in 2018. According to the State, the husband was to be killed in their home in Kempton Park. He learnt about the plot from the hired “hitmen”, who warned him instead of going ahead with the dark plan. The Mudaus divorced in November 2021, following the fallout caused by the wife’s alleged plot. Ndlovu’s second case related to her alleged plot to have her former colleagues at the Thembisa police station killed. The State alleged that Ndlovu wanted colonel Nthipe Boloka, her former station commander and sergeant Keshi Benneth Mabunda dead because they led the investigation against her. This investigation pieced together evidence that resulted in Ndlovu being charged for the gruesome murders of her five relatives and boyfriend, Maurice Mabasa. Ndlovu organised hits on the six for insurance payouts, the South Gauteng High Court in Joburg, found last year. She took out life covers under their names fraudulently and walked away with more than R1.4 million from her scheme which started in 2012 and ended in 2018. The relatives she ordered hits on were her sister Audrey Ndlovu, her nephews Mayeni Mashaba and Brilliant Mashego, her cousin Madala Homu, and Zanele Motha, her niece. Judge Ramarumo Monama described her as a cruel, hellish, bullish and brazen serial killer. Ndlovu and Mudau will be back on the dock next Tuesday.  Ndlovu’s “on the run” co-accused is expected to join them. Mudau is out on free bail, after she gave birth.  @BonganiNkosi87 bongani.nkosi@inl.co.za