The family of the three brothers who were allegedly poisoned by their father has called for justice to be served as they try to understand the father’s motive and one child still recovers in hospital.  Three brothers from Ratanda Primary School and Khanya Lesedi Secondary School in Heidelberg, Lehlogonolo Khoabane,16, Katleho Khoabane, 13, and Tebogo Ngcongwane. 6, succumbed after drinking energy drinks allegedly given by their father on Thursday morning. The father of the three boys reportedly gave all five of his children energy drinks on Thursday morning while they were preparing for school. Four of the siblings allegedly consumed the drink after arriving at school. Two of the boys tragically died shortly at school after complaining of stomach pains and the other while being rushed to the hospital. The fourth child is currently in a critical condition. Family spokesperson Johannes Khoabane told The Star yesterday that the fourth child, Neo Khoabane, 11, was still in hospital where he is recovering well and his father is also at the hospital recovering after a suicide attempt. Police have confirmed that the father was charged with three counts of murder and one of attempted murder. Gauteng police spokesperson Brigadier Brenda Muridili said the man was found unconscious at their home just outside Heidelberg in Gauteng. He was taken to hospital where he remained under police guard. Khoabane added that the family was busy with visits from community members and was grateful for the support. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi, who visited the schools and family on Friday morning, said he was hurt to lose three children at the same time. “It can’t be usual that we lose three children at the same time. It can’t be usual that we find ourselves in this situation, but I want to extend my support to all of you,” the MEC said. He emphasised to learners who were close with the deceased brothers to seek out the psycho-social support provided to the two schools. After being briefed by the family around the boys’ final moments at home before the brothers died, Lesufi said the incident was intentional and that even the family’s pet did not escape the act. “Following the brief chat with the family, they indeed need assistance and our support and they would not get that if we hadn’t come here and got this information directly from the family,” the MEC said. Khoabane said on Friday,  the family was still in shock and that there were many questions as they tried to figure out why the father allegedly poisoned his boys and attempted suicide. Khoabane revealed that the father waited until the boys’ mother left for work, then mixed the energy drinks with a specific drug and made four of the boys drink the liquid as one of them declined to drink the liquid. The father also allegedly made his dog drink the same concoction. “We were phoned by the school teachers at Khanya Lesedi and they said the children were sick at school. After rushing, we arrived and were told that the two boys had died. The teachers at the school tried to help the children and an ambulance also tried to help but they could not,” the family spokesperson said. He added that when they arrived at Ratanda Primary School, they found that the child was not responding and he died on the way to the hospital, while the other brother was transferred to Natalspruit Hospital. Khoabane said the family was praying he would be okay but he was still alive. The family spokesperson further revealed that the father allegedly took his wife's picture and after stabbing himself, placed the image on his chest. “The thing that’s making it more painful is that we don’t understand why this happened. These are our children and this pain is felt a lot. Sometimes you see things like this happen on television and you don’t know how it feels until it happens to you. It’s very painful,” Khoabane said. The family said the law must take its course. @Chulu_M