The co-accused of jailed killer cop Rosemary Ndlovu in fresh charges remains at large despite a warrant of arrest. Ndlovu stood in the dock alone at the Kempton Park Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday for the case she faced with the fugitive unnamed co-accused. The same happened last week when prosecutor Riana Williams asked for postponement to give the police a chance to execute a warrant of arrest. Ndlovu and her co-accused have been charged with two counts of conspiracy to commit murder. They are alleged to have plotted to kill Ndlovu’s former colleagues at the Thembisa police station killed. The State alleged that Ndlovu wanted colonel Nthipe Boloka, her former station commander and sergeant Keshi Benneth Mabunda dead because they led the investigation against her. The State obtained the warrant of arrest against Ndlovu's co-accused last week because he or she evaded arrest for over a month. On Tuesday, Williams asked for another postponement of the case for the same reason she gave last week. “As for now, I’m requesting that the matter be remanded to the 7th of July as arranged with the defence for the other accused to be arrested,” she told the court. Ndlovu gained notoriety during her serial murders trial last year, which culminated in her six life sentences imprisonment. She ordered hits on five relatives and one lover. She fraudulently received over a million rand following their brutal killings. Ndlovu was back in court for two separate cases of conspiracy to commit murders. Her co-accused in one case, Nomsa Mudau, stood in the dock with her for the brief proceedings. Mudau is accused of conspiring with Ndlovu to have her husband, Justice Mudau, killed. In a similar pattern to the crimes that landed Ndlovu behind bars, her husband was allegedly to be killed for an insurance payout. A friend of Ndlovu’s and former fellow cop stationed in Thembisa, Mudau was married to Justice when he learnt of the plot to kill him in 2018. According to the State, the husband was to be killed in their home in Kempton Park. He learnt about the plot from the hired “hitmen”, who warned him instead of going ahead with the dark plan. The Mudaus divorced in November 2021, following the fallout caused by the wife’s alleged plot. Both cases will proceed on 7 July. @BonganiNkosi87